 Medicine is the science and practice of caring for a patient, managing the diagnosis, prognosis, prevention, treatment, palliation of their injury or disease, and promoting their health. Medicine encompasses a variety of health care practices evolved to maintain and restore health by the prevention and treatment of illness. Contemporary medicine applies biomedical sciences, biomedical research, genetics, and medical technology to diagnose, treat, and prevent injury and disease, typically through pharmaceuticals or surgery, but also through therapies as diverse as psychotherapy, external splints and traction, medical devices, biologics, and ionizing radiation, amongst others.Medicine has been practiced since prehistoric times, and for most of this time it was an art (an area of creativity and skill), frequently having connections to the religious and philosophical beliefs of local culture. For example, a medicine man would apply herbs and say prayers for healing, or an ancient philosopher and physician would apply bloodletting according to the theories of humorism. In recent centuries, since the advent of modern science, most medicine has become a combination of art and science (both basic and applied, under the umbrella of medical science). For example, while stitching technique for sutures is an art learned through practice, knowledge of what happens at the cellular and molecular level in the tissues being stitched arises through science. Prescientific forms of medicine, now known as traditional medicine or folk medicine, remain commonly used in the absence of scientific medicine and are thus called alternative medicine. Alternative treatments outside of scientific medicine with ethical, safety and efficacy concerns are termed quackery. Etymology Medicine (UK: , US: ) is the science and practice of the diagnosis, prognosis, treatment, and prevention of disease. The word medicine is derived from Latin medicus, meaning a physician. Clinical practice Medical availability and clinical practice vary across the world due to regional differences in culture and technology. Modern scientific medicine is highly developed in the Western world, while in developing countries such as parts of Africa or Asia, the population may rely more heavily on traditional medicine with limited evidence and efficacy and no required formal training for practitioners.In the developed world, evidence-based medicine is not universally used in clinical practice; for example, a 2007 survey of literature reviews found that about 49% of the interventions lacked sufficient evidence to support either benefit or harm.In modern clinical practice, physicians and physician assistants personally assess patients to diagnose, prognose, treat, and prevent disease using clinical judgment. The doctor-patient relationship typically begins with an interaction with an examination of the patient's medical history and medical record, followed by a medical interview and a physical examination. Basic diagnostic medical devices (e.g., stethoscope, tongue depressor) are typically used. After examining for signs and interviewing for symptoms, the doctor may order medical tests (e.g., blood tests), take a biopsy, or prescribe pharmaceutical drugs or other therapies. Differential diagnosis methods help to rule out conditions based on the information provided. During the encounter, properly informing the patient of all relevant facts is an important part of the relationship and the development of trust. The medical encounter is then documented in the medical record, which is a legal document in many jurisdictions. Follow-ups may be shorter but follow the same general procedure, and specialists follow a similar process. The diagnosis and treatment may take only a few minutes or a few weeks, depending on the complexity of the issue. The components of the medical interview and encounter are: Chief complaint (CC): the reason for the current medical visit. These are the symptoms. They are in the patient's own words and are recorded along with the duration of each one. Also called chief concern or presenting complaint. Current activity: occupation, hobbies, what the patient actually does. Family history (FH): listing of diseases in the family that may impact the patient. A family tree is sometimes used. History of present illness (HPI): the chronological order of events of symptoms and further clarification of each symptom. Distinguishable from history of previous illness, often called past medical history (PMH). Medical history comprises HPI and PMH. Medications (Rx): what drugs the patient takes including prescribed, over-the-counter, and home remedies, as well as alternative and herbal medicines or remedies. Allergies are also recorded. Past medical history (PMH/PMHx): concurrent medical problems, past hospitalizations and operations, injuries, past infectious diseases or vaccinations, history of known allergies. Review of systems (ROS) or systems inquiry: a set of additional questions to ask, which may be missed on HPI: a general enquiry (have you noticed any weight loss, change in sleep quality, fevers, lumps and bumps? etc. ), followed by questions on the body's main organ systems (heart, lungs, digestive tract, urinary tract, etc.). Social history (SH): birthplace, residences, marital history, social and economic status, habits (including diet, medications, tobacco, alcohol).The physical examination is the examination of the patient for medical signs of disease that are objective and observable, in contrast to symptoms that are volunteered by the patient and are not necessarily objectively observable. The healthcare provider uses sight, hearing, touch, and sometimes smell (e.g., in infection, uremia, diabetic ketoacidosis). Four actions are the basis of physical examination: inspection, palpation (feel), percussion (tap to determine resonance characteristics), and auscultation (listen), generally in that order, although auscultation occurs prior to percussion and palpation for abdominal assessments.The clinical examination involves the study of: Abdomen and rectum Cardiovascular (heart and blood vessels) General appearance of the patient and specific indicators of disease (nutritional status, presence of jaundice, pallor or clubbing) Genitalia (and pregnancy if the patient is or could be pregnant) Head, eye, ear, nose, and throat (HEENT) Musculoskeletal (including spine and extremities) Neurological (consciousness, awareness, brain, vision, cranial nerves, spinal cord and peripheral nerves) Psychiatric (orientation, mental state, mood, evidence of abnormal perception or thought). Respiratory (large airways and lungs) Skin Vital signs including height, weight, body temperature, blood pressure, pulse, respiration rate, and hemoglobin oxygen saturationIt is to likely focus on areas of interest highlighted in the medical history and may not include everything listed above. The treatment plan may include ordering additional medical laboratory tests and medical imaging studies, starting therapy, referral to a specialist, or watchful observation. A follow-up may be advised. Depending upon the health insurance plan and the managed care system, various forms of utilization review, such as prior authorization of tests, may place barriers on accessing expensive services.The medical decision-making (MDM) process includes the analysis and synthesis of all the above data to come up with a list of possible diagnoses (the differential diagnoses), along with an idea of what needs to be done to obtain a definitive diagnosis that would explain the patient's problem. On subsequent visits, the process may be repeated in an abbreviated manner to obtain any new history, symptoms, physical findings, lab or imaging results, or specialist consultations. Institutions Contemporary medicine is, in general, conducted within health care systems. Legal, credentialing, and financing frameworks are established by individual governments, augmented on occasion by international organizations, such as churches. The characteristics of any given health care system have a significant impact on the way medical care is provided. From ancient times, Christian emphasis on practical charity gave rise to the development of systematic nursing and hospitals, and the Catholic Church today remains the largest non-government provider of medical services in the world. Advanced industrial countries (with the exception of the United States) and many developing countries provide medical services through a system of universal health care that aims to guarantee care for all through a single-payer health care system or compulsory private or cooperative health insurance. This is intended to ensure that the entire population has access to medical care on the basis of need rather than ability to pay. Delivery may be via private medical practices, state-owned hospitals and clinics, or charities, most commonly a combination of all three. Most tribal societies provide no guarantee of healthcare for the population as a whole. In such societies, healthcare is available to those who can afford to pay for it, have self-insured it (either directly or as part of an employment contract), or may be covered by care financed directly by the government or tribe. Transparency of information is another factor defining a delivery system. Access to information on conditions, treatments, quality, and pricing greatly affects the choice of patients/consumers and, therefore, the incentives of medical professionals. While the US healthcare system has come under fire for its lack of openness, new legislation may encourage greater openness. There is a perceived tension between the need for transparency on the one hand and such issues as patient confidentiality and the possible exploitation of information for commercial gain on the other. The health professionals who provide care in medicine comprise multiple professions, such as medics, nurses, physiotherapists, and psychologists. These professions will have their own ethical standards, professional education, and bodies. The medical profession has been conceptualized from a sociological perspective. Delivery Provision of medical care is classified into primary, secondary, and tertiary care categories. Primary care medical services are provided by physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, or other health professionals who have first contact with a patient seeking medical treatment or care. These occur in physician offices, clinics, nursing homes, schools, home visits, and other places close to patients. About 90% of medical visits can be treated by the primary care provider. These include treatment of acute and chronic illnesses, preventive care and health education for all ages and both sexes. Secondary care medical services are provided by medical specialists in their offices or clinics or at local community hospitals for a patient referred by a primary care provider who first diagnosed or treated the patient. Referrals are made for those patients who required the expertise or procedures performed by specialists. These include both ambulatory care and inpatient services, emergency departments, intensive care medicine, surgery services, physical therapy, labor and delivery, endoscopy units, diagnostic laboratory and medical imaging services, hospice centers, etc. Some primary care providers may also take care of hospitalized patients and deliver babies in a secondary care setting. Tertiary care medical services are provided by specialist hospitals or regional centers equipped with diagnostic and treatment facilities not generally available at local hospitals. These include trauma centers, burn treatment centers, advanced neonatology unit services, organ transplants, high-risk pregnancy, radiation oncology, etc. Modern medical care also depends on information – still delivered in many health care settings on paper records, but increasingly nowadays by electronic means. In low-income countries, modern healthcare is often too expensive for the average person. International healthcare policy researchers have advocated that user fees be removed in these areas to ensure access, although even after removal, significant costs and barriers remain.Separation of prescribing and dispensing is a practice in medicine and pharmacy in which the physician who provides a medical prescription is independent from the pharmacist who provides the prescription drug. In the Western world there are centuries of tradition for separating pharmacists from physicians. In Asian countries, it is traditional for physicians to also provide drugs. Branches Working together as an interdisciplinary team, many highly trained health professionals besides medical practitioners are involved in the delivery of modern health care. Examples include: nurses, emergency medical technicians and paramedics, laboratory scientists, pharmacists, podiatrists, physiotherapists, respiratory therapists, speech therapists, occupational therapists, radiographers, dietitians, and bioengineers, medical physicists, surgeons, surgeon's assistant, surgical technologist. The scope and sciences underpinning human medicine overlap many other fields. A patient admitted to the hospital is usually under the care of a specific team based on their main presenting problem, e.g., the cardiology team, who then may interact with other specialties, e.g., surgical, radiology, to help diagnose or treat the main problem or any subsequent complications/developments. Physicians have many specializations and subspecializations into certain branches of medicine, which are listed below. There are variations from country to country regarding which specialties certain subspecialties are in. The main branches of medicine are: Basic sciences of medicine; this is what every physician is educated in, and some return to in biomedical research. Interdisciplinary fields, where different medical specialties are mixed to function in certain occasions. Medical specialties Basic sciences Anatomy is the study of the physical structure of organisms. In contrast to macroscopic or gross anatomy, cytology and histology are concerned with microscopic structures. Biochemistry is the study of the chemistry taking place in living organisms, especially the structure and function of their chemical components. Biomechanics is the study of the structure and function of biological systems by means of the methods of Mechanics. Biophysics is an interdisciplinary science that uses the methods of physics and physical chemistry to study biological systems. Biostatistics is the application of statistics to biological fields in the broadest sense. A knowledge of biostatistics is essential in the planning, evaluation, and interpretation of medical research. It is also fundamental to epidemiology and evidence-based medicine. Cytology is the microscopic study of individual cells.Embryology is the study of the early development of organisms. Endocrinology is the study of hormones and their effect throughout the body of animals. Epidemiology is the study of the demographics of disease processes, and includes, but is not limited to, the study of epidemics. Genetics is the study of genes, and their role in biological inheritance. Gynecology is the study of female reproductive system. Histology is the study of the structures of biological tissues by light microscopy, electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry. Immunology is the study of the immune system, which includes the innate and adaptive immune system in humans, for example. Lifestyle medicine is the study of the chronic conditions, and how to prevent, treat and reverse them. Medical physics is the study of the applications of physics principles in medicine. Microbiology is the study of microorganisms, including protozoa, bacteria, fungi, and viruses. Molecular biology is the study of molecular underpinnings of the process of replication, transcription and translation of the genetic material. Neuroscience includes those disciplines of science that are related to the study of the nervous system. A main focus of neuroscience is the biology and physiology of the human brain and spinal cord. Some related clinical specialties include neurology, neurosurgery and psychiatry. Nutrition science (theoretical focus) and dietetics (practical focus) is the study of the relationship of food and drink to health and disease, especially in determining an optimal diet. Medical nutrition therapy is done by dietitians and is prescribed for diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, weight and eating disorders, allergies, malnutrition, and neoplastic diseases. Pathology as a science is the study of disease – the causes, course, progression and resolution thereof. Pharmacology is the study of drugs and their actions. Photobiology is the study of the interactions between non-ionizing radiation and living organisms. Physiology is the study of the normal functioning of the body and the underlying regulatory mechanisms. Radiobiology is the study of the interactions between ionizing radiation and living organisms. Toxicology is the study of hazardous effects of drugs and poisons. Specialties In the broadest meaning of medicine, there are many different specialties. In the UK, most specialities have their own body or college, which has its own entrance examination. These are collectively known as the Royal Colleges, although not all currently use the term Royal. The development of a speciality is often driven by new technology (such as the development of effective anaesthetics) or ways of working (such as emergency departments); the new specialty leads to the formation of a unifying body of doctors and the prestige of administering their own examination. Within medical circles, specialities usually fit into one of two broad categories: Medicine and Surgery. Medicine refers to the practice of non-operative medicine, and most of its subspecialties require preliminary training in Internal Medicine. In the UK, this was traditionally evidenced by passing the examination for the Membership of the Royal College of Physicians (MRCP) or the equivalent college in Scotland or Ireland. Surgery refers to the practice of operative medicine, and most subspecialties in this area require preliminary training in General Surgery, which in the UK leads to membership of the Royal College of Surgeons of England (MRCS). At present, some specialties of medicine do not fit easily into either of these categories, such as radiology, pathology, or anesthesia. Most of these have branched from one or other of the two camps above; for example anaesthesia developed first as a faculty of the Royal College of Surgeons (for which MRCS/FRCS would have been required) before becoming the Royal College of Anaesthetists and membership of the college is attained by sitting for the examination of the Fellowship of the Royal College of Anesthetists (FRCA). Surgical specialty Surgery is an ancient medical specialty that uses operative manual and instrumental techniques on a patient to investigate or treat a pathological condition such as disease or injury, to help improve bodily function or appearance or to repair unwanted ruptured areas (for example, a perforated ear drum). Surgeons must also manage pre-operative, post-operative, and potential surgical candidates on the hospital wards. In some centers, anesthesiology is part of the division of surgery (for historical and logistical reasons), although it is not a surgical discipline. Other medical specialties may employ surgical procedures, such as ophthalmology and dermatology, but are not considered surgical sub-specialties per se. Surgical training in the U.S. requires a minimum of five years of residency after medical school. Sub-specialties of surgery often require seven or more years. In addition, fellowships can last an additional one to three years. Because post-residency fellowships can be competitive, many trainees devote two additional years to research. Thus in some cases surgical training will not finish until more than a decade after medical school. Furthermore, surgical training can be very difficult and time-consuming. Surgical subspecialties include those a physician may specialize in after undergoing general surgery residency training as well as several surgical fields with separate residency training. Surgical subspecialties that one may pursue following general surgery residency training: Bariatric surgery Cardiovascular surgery – may also be pursued through a separate cardiovascular surgery residency track Colorectal surgery Endocrine surgery General surgery Hand surgery Hepatico-Pancreatico-Biliary Surgery Minimally invasive surgery Pediatric surgery Plastic surgery – may also be pursued through a separate plastic surgery residency track Surgical critical care Surgical oncology Transplant surgery Trauma surgery Vascular surgery – may also be pursued through a separate vascular surgery residency trackOther surgical specialties within medicine with their own individual residency training: Dermatology Neurosurgery Ophthalmology Oral and maxillofacial surgery Orthopedic surgery Otorhinolaryngology Podiatric surgery – do not undergo medical school training, but rather separate training in podiatry school Urology Internal medicine specialty Internal medicine is the medical specialty dealing with the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of adult diseases. According to some sources, an emphasis on internal structures is implied. In North America, specialists in internal medicine are commonly called internists. Elsewhere, especially in Commonwealth nations, such specialists are often called physicians. These terms, internist or physician (in the narrow sense, common outside North America), generally exclude practitioners of gynecology and obstetrics, pathology, psychiatry, and especially surgery and its subspecialities. Because their patients are often seriously ill or require complex investigations, internists do much of their work in hospitals. Formerly, many internists were not subspecialized; such general physicians would see any complex nonsurgical problem; this style of practice has become much less common. In modern urban practice, most internists are subspecialists: that is, they generally limit their medical practice to problems of one organ system or to one particular area of medical knowledge. For example, gastroenterologists and nephrologists specialize respectively in diseases of the gut and the kidneys.In the Commonwealth of Nations and some other countries, specialist pediatricians and geriatricians are also described as specialist physicians (or internists) who have subspecialized by age of patient rather than by organ system. Elsewhere, especially in North America, general pediatrics is often a form of primary care. There are many subspecialities (or subdisciplines) of internal medicine: Training in internal medicine (as opposed to surgical training), varies considerably across the world: see the articles on medical education for more details. In North America, it requires at least three years of residency training after medical school, which can then be followed by a one- to three-year fellowship in the subspecialties listed above. In general, resident work hours in medicine are less than those in surgery, averaging about 60 hours per week in the US. This difference does not apply in the UK where all doctors are now required by law to work less than 48 hours per week on average. Diagnostic specialties Clinical laboratory sciences are the clinical diagnostic services that apply laboratory techniques to diagnosis and management of patients. In the United States, these services are supervised by a pathologist. The personnel that work in these medical laboratory departments are technically trained staff who do not hold medical degrees, but who usually hold an undergraduate medical technology degree, who actually perform the tests, assays, and procedures needed for providing the specific services. Subspecialties include transfusion medicine, cellular pathology, clinical chemistry, hematology, clinical microbiology and clinical immunology. Clinical neurophysiology is concerned with testing the physiology or function of the central and peripheral aspects of the nervous system. These kinds of tests can be divided into recordings of: (1) spontaneous or continuously running electrical activity, or (2) stimulus evoked responses. Subspecialties include electroencephalography, electromyography, evoked potential, nerve conduction study and polysomnography. Sometimes these tests are performed by techs without a medical degree, but the interpretation of these tests is done by a medical professional. Diagnostic radiology is concerned with imaging of the body, e.g. by x-rays, x-ray computed tomography, ultrasonography, and nuclear magnetic resonance tomography. Interventional radiologists can access areas in the body under imaging for an intervention or diagnostic sampling. Nuclear medicine is concerned with studying human organ systems by administering radiolabelled substances (radiopharmaceuticals) to the body, which can then be imaged outside the body by a gamma camera or a PET scanner. Each radiopharmaceutical consists of two parts: a tracer that is specific for the function under study (e.g., neurotransmitter pathway, metabolic pathway, blood flow, or other), and a radionuclide (usually either a gamma-emitter or a positron emitter). There is a degree of overlap between nuclear medicine and radiology, as evidenced by the emergence of combined devices such as the PET/CT scanner. Pathology as a medical specialty is the branch of medicine that deals with the study of diseases and the morphologic, physiologic changes produced by them. As a diagnostic specialty, pathology can be considered the basis of modern scientific medical knowledge and plays a large role in evidence-based medicine. Many modern molecular tests such as flow cytometry, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), immunohistochemistry, cytogenetics, gene rearrangements studies and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) fall within the territory of pathology. Other major specialties The following are some major medical specialties that do not directly fit into any of the above-mentioned groups: Anesthesiology (also known as anaesthetics): concerned with the perioperative management of the surgical patient. The anesthesiologist's role during surgery is to prevent derangement in the vital organs' (i.e. brain, heart, kidneys) functions and postoperative pain. Outside of the operating room, the anesthesiology physician also serves the same function in the labor and delivery ward, and some are specialized in critical medicine. Emergency medicine is concerned with the diagnosis and treatment of acute or life-threatening conditions, including trauma, surgical, medical, pediatric, and psychiatric emergencies. Family medicine, family practice, general practice or primary care is, in many countries, the first port-of-call for patients with non-emergency medical problems. Family physicians often provide services across a broad range of settings including office based practices, emergency department coverage, inpatient care, and nursing home care.Medical genetics is concerned with the diagnosis and management of hereditary disorders. Neurology is concerned with diseases of the nervous system. In the UK, neurology is a subspecialty of general medicine. Obstetrics and gynecology (often abbreviated as OB/GYN (American English) or Obs & Gynae (British English)) are concerned respectively with childbirth and the female reproductive and associated organs. Reproductive medicine and fertility medicine are generally practiced by gynecological specialists. Pediatrics (AE) or paediatrics (BE) is devoted to the care of infants, children, and adolescents. Like internal medicine, there are many pediatric subspecialties for specific age ranges, organ systems, disease classes, and sites of care delivery. Pharmaceutical medicine is the medical scientific discipline concerned with the discovery, development, evaluation, registration, monitoring and medical aspects of marketing of medicines for the benefit of patients and public health. Physical medicine and rehabilitation (or physiatry) is concerned with functional improvement after injury, illness, or congenital disorders. Podiatric medicine is the study of, diagnosis, and medical & surgical treatment of disorders of the foot, ankle, lower limb, hip and lower back. Preventive medicine is the branch of medicine concerned with preventing disease. Community health or public health is an aspect of health services concerned with threats to the overall health of a community based on population health analysis. Psychiatry is the branch of medicine concerned with the bio-psycho-social study of the etiology, diagnosis, treatment and prevention of cognitive, perceptual, emotional and behavioral disorders. Related fields include psychotherapy and clinical psychology. Interdisciplinary fields Some interdisciplinary sub-specialties of medicine include: Addiction medicine deals with the treatment of addiction. Aerospace medicine deals with medical problems related to flying and space travel. Biomedical Engineering is a field dealing with the application of engineering principles to medical practice. Clinical pharmacology is concerned with how systems of therapeutics interact with patients. Conservation medicine studies the relationship between human and non-human animal health, and environmental conditions. Also known as ecological medicine, environmental medicine, or medical geology. Disaster medicine deals with medical aspects of emergency preparedness, disaster mitigation and management. Diving medicine (or hyperbaric medicine) is the prevention and treatment of diving-related problems. Evolutionary medicine is a perspective on medicine derived through applying evolutionary theory. Forensic medicine deals with medical questions in legal context, such as determination of the time and cause of death, type of weapon used to inflict trauma, reconstruction of the facial features using remains of deceased (skull) thus aiding identification. Gender-based medicine studies the biological and physiological differences between the human sexes and how that affects differences in disease. Health informatics is a relatively recent field that deal with the application of computers and information technology to medicine. Hospice and Palliative Medicine is a relatively modern branch of clinical medicine that deals with pain and symptom relief and emotional support in patients with terminal illnesses including cancer and heart failure. Hospital medicine is the general medical care of hospitalized patients. Physicians whose primary professional focus is hospital medicine are called hospitalists in the United States and Canada. The term Most Responsible Physician (MRP) or attending physician is also used interchangeably to describe this role. Laser medicine involves the use of lasers in the diagnostics or treatment of various conditions. Many other health science fields, e.g. dietetics Medical ethics deals with ethical and moral principles that apply values and judgments to the practice of medicine. Medical humanities includes the humanities (literature, philosophy, ethics, history and religion), social science (anthropology, cultural studies, psychology, sociology), and the arts (literature, theater, film, and visual arts) and their application to medical education and practice. Nosokinetics is the science/subject of measuring and modelling the process of care in health and social care systems. Nosology is the classification of diseases for various purposes. Occupational medicine is the provision of health advice to organizations and individuals to ensure that the highest standards of health and safety at work can be achieved and maintained. Pain management (also called pain medicine, or algiatry) is the medical discipline concerned with the relief of pain. Pharmacogenomics is a form of individualized medicine. Podiatric medicine is the study of, diagnosis, and medical treatment of disorders of the foot, ankle, lower limb, hip and lower back. Sexual medicine is concerned with diagnosing, assessing and treating all disorders related to sexuality. Sports medicine deals with the treatment and prevention and rehabilitation of sports/exercise injuries such as muscle spasms, muscle tears, injuries to ligaments (ligament tears or ruptures) and their repair in athletes, amateur and professional. Therapeutics is the field, more commonly referenced in earlier periods of history, of the various remedies that can be used to treat disease and promote health. Travel medicine or emporiatrics deals with health problems of international travelers or travelers across highly different environments. Tropical medicine deals with the prevention and treatment of tropical diseases. It is studied separately in temperate climates where those diseases are quite unfamiliar to medical practitioners and their local clinical needs. Urgent care focuses on delivery of unscheduled, walk-in care outside of the hospital emergency department for injuries and illnesses that are not severe enough to require care in an emergency department. In some jurisdictions this function is combined with the emergency department. Veterinary medicine; veterinarians apply similar techniques as physicians to the care of non-human animals. Wilderness medicine entails the practice of medicine in the wild, where conventional medical facilities may not be available. Education and legal controls Medical education and training varies around the world. It typically involves entry level education at a university medical school, followed by a period of supervised practice or internship, or residency. This can be followed by postgraduate vocational training. A variety of teaching methods have been employed in medical education, still itself a focus of active research. In Canada and the United States of America, a Doctor of Medicine degree, often abbreviated M.D., or a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, often abbreviated as D.O. and unique to the United States, must be completed in and delivered from a recognized university. Since knowledge, techniques, and medical technology continue to evolve at a rapid rate, many regulatory authorities require continuing medical education. Medical practitioners upgrade their knowledge in various ways, including medical journals, seminars, conferences, and online programs. A database of objectives covering medical knowledge, as suggested by national societies across the United States, can be searched at http://data.medobjectives.marian.edu/ Archived 4 October 2018 at the Wayback Machine. In most countries, it is a legal requirement for a medical doctor to be licensed or registered. In general, this entails a medical degree from a university and accreditation by a medical board or an equivalent national organization, which may ask the applicant to pass exams. This restricts the considerable legal authority of the medical profession to physicians that are trained and qualified by national standards. It is also intended as an assurance to patients and as a safeguard against charlatans that practice inadequate medicine for personal gain. While the laws generally require medical doctors to be trained in evidence based, Western, or Hippocratic Medicine, they are not intended to discourage different paradigms of health. In the European Union, the profession of doctor of medicine is regulated. A profession is said to be regulated when access and exercise is subject to the possession of a specific professional qualification. The regulated professions database contains a list of regulated professions for doctor of medicine in the EU member states, EEA countries and Switzerland. This list is covered by the Directive 2005/36/EC. Doctors who are negligent or intentionally harmful in their care of patients can face charges of medical malpractice and be subject to civil, criminal, or professional sanctions. Medical ethics Medical ethics is a system of moral principles that apply values and judgments to the practice of medicine. As a scholarly discipline, medical ethics encompasses its practical application in clinical settings as well as work on its history, philosophy, theology, and sociology. Six of the values that commonly apply to medical ethics discussions are: autonomy – the patient has the right to refuse or choose their treatment. (Latin: Voluntas aegroti suprema lex.) beneficence – a practitioner should act in the best interest of the patient. (Latin: Salus aegroti suprema lex.) justice – concerns the distribution of scarce health resources, and the decision of who gets what treatment (fairness and equality). non-maleficence – first, do no harm (Latin: primum non-nocere). respect for persons – the patient (and the person treating the patient) have the right to be treated with dignity. truthfulness and honesty – the concept of informed consent has increased in importance since the historical events of the Doctors' Trial of the Nuremberg trials, Tuskegee syphilis experiment, and others.Values such as these do not give answers as to how to handle a particular situation, but provide a useful framework for understanding conflicts. When moral values are in conflict, the result may be an ethical dilemma or crisis. Sometimes, no good solution to a dilemma in medical ethics exists, and occasionally, the values of the medical community (i.e., the hospital and its staff) conflict with the values of the individual patient, family, or larger non-medical community. Conflicts can also arise between health care providers, or among family members. For example, some argue that the principles of autonomy and beneficence clash when patients refuse blood transfusions, considering them life-saving; and truth-telling was not emphasized to a large extent before the HIV era. History Ancient world Prehistoric medicine incorporated plants (herbalism), animal parts, and minerals. In many cases these materials were used ritually as magical substances by priests, shamans, or medicine men. Well-known spiritual systems include animism (the notion of inanimate objects having spirits), spiritualism (an appeal to gods or communion with ancestor spirits); shamanism (the vesting of an individual with mystic powers); and divination (magically obtaining the truth). The field of medical anthropology examines the ways in which culture and society are organized around or impacted by issues of health, health care and related issues. The earliest known medical texts in the world were found in the ancient Syrian city of Ebla and date back to 2500 BCE. Other early records on medicine have been discovered from ancient Egyptian medicine, Babylonian Medicine, Ayurvedic medicine (in the Indian subcontinent), classical Chinese medicine (predecessor to the modern traditional Chinese medicine), and ancient Greek medicine and Roman medicine. In Egypt, Imhotep (3rd millennium BCE) is the first physician in history known by name. The oldest Egyptian medical text is the Kahun Gynaecological Papyrus from around 2000 BCE, which describes gynaecological diseases. The Edwin Smith Papyrus dating back to 1600 BCE is an early work on surgery, while the Ebers Papyrus dating back to 1500 BCE is akin to a textbook on medicine.In China, archaeological evidence of medicine in Chinese dates back to the Bronze Age Shang Dynasty, based on seeds for herbalism and tools presumed to have been used for surgery. The Huangdi Neijing, the progenitor of Chinese medicine, is a medical text written beginning in the 2nd century BCE and compiled in the 3rd century.In India, the surgeon Sushruta described numerous surgical operations, including the earliest forms of plastic surgery. Earliest records of dedicated hospitals come from Mihintale in Sri Lanka where evidence of dedicated medicinal treatment facilities for patients are found. In Greece, the ancient Greek physician Hippocrates, the father of modern medicine, laid the foundation for a rational approach to medicine. Hippocrates introduced the Hippocratic Oath for physicians, which is still relevant and in use today, and was the first to categorize illnesses as acute, chronic, endemic and epidemic, and use terms such as, exacerbation, relapse, resolution, crisis, paroxysm, peak, and convalescence. The Greek physician Galen was also one of the greatest surgeons of the ancient world and performed many audacious operations, including brain and eye surgeries. After the fall of the Western Roman Empire and the onset of the Early Middle Ages, the Greek tradition of medicine went into decline in Western Europe, although it continued uninterrupted in the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire. Most of our knowledge of ancient Hebrew medicine during the 1st millennium BC comes from the Torah, i.e. the Five Books of Moses, which contain various health related laws and rituals. The Hebrew contribution to the development of modern medicine started in the Byzantine Era, with the physician Asaph the Jew. Middle Ages The concept of hospital as institution to offer medical care and possibility of a cure for the patients due to the ideals of Christian charity, rather than just merely a place to die, appeared in the Byzantine Empire.Although the concept of uroscopy was known to Galen, he did not see the importance of using it to localize the disease. It was under the Byzantines with physicians such of Theophilus Protospatharius that they realized the potential in uroscopy to determine disease in a time when no microscope or stethoscope existed. That practice eventually spread to the rest of Europe.After 750 CE, the Muslim world had the works of Hippocrates, Galen and Sushruta translated into Arabic, and Islamic physicians engaged in some significant medical research. Notable Islamic medical pioneers include the Persian polymath, Avicenna, who, along with Imhotep and Hippocrates, has also been called the father of medicine. He wrote The Canon of Medicine which became a standard medical text at many medieval European universities, considered one of the most famous books in the history of medicine. Others include Abulcasis, Avenzoar, Ibn al-Nafis, and Averroes. Persian physician Rhazes was one of the first to question the Greek theory of humorism, which nevertheless remained influential in both medieval Western and medieval Islamic medicine. Some volumes of Rhazes's work Al-Mansuri, namely On Surgery and A General Book on Therapy, became part of the medical curriculum in European universities. Additionally, he has been described as a doctor's doctor, the father of pediatrics, and a pioneer of ophthalmology. For example, he was the first to recognize the reaction of the eye's pupil to light. The Persian Bimaristan hospitals were an early example of public hospitals.In Europe, Charlemagne decreed that a hospital should be attached to each cathedral and monastery and the historian Geoffrey Blainey likened the activities of the Catholic Church in health care during the Middle Ages to an early version of a welfare state: It conducted hospitals for the old and orphanages for the young; hospices for the sick of all ages; places for the lepers; and hostels or inns where pilgrims could buy a cheap bed and meal. It supplied food to the population during famine and distributed food to the poor. This welfare system the church funded through collecting taxes on a large scale and possessing large farmlands and estates. The Benedictine order was noted for setting up hospitals and infirmaries in their monasteries, growing medical herbs and becoming the chief medical care givers of their districts, as at the great Abbey of Cluny. The Church also established a network of cathedral schools and universities where medicine was studied. The Schola Medica Salernitana in Salerno, looking to the learning of Greek and Arab physicians, grew to be the finest medical school in Medieval Europe. However, the fourteenth and fifteenth century Black Death devastated both the Middle East and Europe, and it has even been argued that Western Europe was generally more effective in recovering from the pandemic than the Middle East. In the early modern period, important early figures in medicine and anatomy emerged in Europe, including Gabriele Falloppio and William Harvey. The major shift in medical thinking was the gradual rejection, especially during the Black Death in the 14th and 15th centuries, of what may be called the traditional authority approach to science and medicine. This was the notion that because some prominent person in the past said something must be so, then that was the way it was, and anything one observed to the contrary was an anomaly (which was paralleled by a similar shift in European society in general – see Copernicus's rejection of Ptolemy's theories on astronomy). Physicians like Vesalius improved upon or disproved some of the theories from the past. The main tomes used both by medicine students and expert physicians were Materia Medica and Pharmacopoeia. Andreas Vesalius was the author of De humani corporis fabrica, an important book on human anatomy. Bacteria and microorganisms were first observed with a microscope by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek in 1676, initiating the scientific field microbiology. Independently from Ibn al-Nafis, Michael Servetus rediscovered the pulmonary circulation, but this discovery did not reach the public because it was written down for the first time in the Manuscript of Paris in 1546, and later published in the theological work for which he paid with his life in 1553. Later this was described by Renaldus Columbus and Andrea Cesalpino. Herman Boerhaave is sometimes referred to as a father of physiology due to his exemplary teaching in Leiden and textbook 'Institutiones medicae' (1708). Pierre Fauchard has been called the father of modern dentistry. Modern Veterinary medicine was, for the first time, truly separated from human medicine in 1761, when the French veterinarian Claude Bourgelat founded the world's first veterinary school in Lyon, France. Before this, medical doctors treated both humans and other animals. Modern scientific biomedical research (where results are testable and reproducible) began to replace early Western traditions based on herbalism, the Greek four humours and other such pre-modern notions. The modern era really began with Edward Jenner's discovery of the smallpox vaccine at the end of the 18th century (inspired by the method of variolation originated in ancient China), Robert Koch's discoveries around 1880 of the transmission of disease by bacteria, and then the discovery of antibiotics around 1900. The post-18th century modernity period brought more groundbreaking researchers from Europe. From Germany and Austria, doctors Rudolf Virchow, Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen, Karl Landsteiner and Otto Loewi made notable contributions. In the United Kingdom, Alexander Fleming, Joseph Lister, Francis Crick and Florence Nightingale are considered important. Spanish doctor Santiago Ramón y Cajal is considered the father of modern neuroscience. From New Zealand and Australia came Maurice Wilkins, Howard Florey, and Frank Macfarlane Burnet. Others that did significant work include William Williams Keen, William Coley, James D. Watson (United States); Salvador Luria (Italy); Alexandre Yersin (Switzerland); Kitasato Shibasaburō (Japan); Jean-Martin Charcot, Claude Bernard, Paul Broca (France); Adolfo Lutz (Brazil); Nikolai Korotkov (Russia); Sir William Osler (Canada); and Harvey Cushing (United States). As science and technology developed, medicine became more reliant upon medications. Throughout history and in Europe right until the late 18th century, not only plant products were used as medicine, but also animal (including human) body parts and fluids. Pharmacology developed in part from herbalism and some drugs are still derived from plants (atropine, ephedrine, warfarin, aspirin, digoxin, vinca alkaloids, taxol, hyoscine, etc.). Vaccines were discovered by Edward Jenner and Louis Pasteur. The first antibiotic was arsphenamine (Salvarsan) discovered by Paul Ehrlich in 1908 after he observed that bacteria took up toxic dyes that human cells did not. The first major class of antibiotics was the sulfa drugs, derived by German chemists originally from azo dyes. Pharmacology has become increasingly sophisticated; modern biotechnology allows drugs targeted towards specific physiological processes to be developed, sometimes designed for compatibility with the body to reduce side-effects. Genomics and knowledge of human genetics and human evolution is having increasingly significant influence on medicine, as the causative genes of most monogenic genetic disorders have now been identified, and the development of techniques in molecular biology, evolution, and genetics are influencing medical technology, practice and decision-making. Evidence-based medicine is a contemporary movement to establish the most effective algorithms of practice (ways of doing things) through the use of systematic reviews and meta-analysis. The movement is facilitated by modern global information science, which allows as much of the available evidence as possible to be collected and analyzed according to standard protocols that are then disseminated to healthcare providers. The Cochrane Collaboration leads this movement. A 2001 review of 160 Cochrane systematic reviews revealed that, according to two readers, 21.3% of the reviews concluded insufficient evidence, 20% concluded evidence of no effect, and 22.5% concluded positive effect. Quality, efficiency, and access Evidence-based medicine, prevention of medical error (and other iatrogenesis), and avoidance of unnecessary health care are a priority in modern medical systems. These topics generate significant political and public policy attention, particularly in the United States where healthcare is regarded as excessively costly but population health metrics lag similar nations.Globally, many developing countries lack access to care and access to medicines. As of 2015, most wealthy developed countries provide health care to all citizens, with a few exceptions such as the United States where lack of health insurance coverage may limit access. See also Baba Farid University of Health Sciences was established in July 1998 by Punjab Act No. 18. Punjabi and headquartered in Faridkot. Faculties University has about 920 MBBS and 1,070 BDS seats across Punjab. Notable affiliated colleges include Faculty of Medical Sciences Christian Medical College, Ludhiana Dayanand Medical College, Ludhiana Government Medical College, Patiala Government Medical College, Amritsar Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot Dr. B.R. Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences, Jalandhar Faculty of Dental Sciences Baba Jaswant Singh Dental College, Ludhiana National Dental College, Patiala Sri Sukhmani Dental College and Hospital, Dera Bassi Faculty of Nursing Sciences University College Of Nursing, Faridkot Malwa College of Nursing, Kotkapura Faridkot Silver Oaks College of Nursing,Abhipur,Mohali. See also Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University Dr. YSR University of Health Sciences Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Uttarakhand Medical Education University Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences Kerala University of Health Sciences Madhya Pradesh Medical Science University Maharashtra University of Health Sciences Odisha University of Health Sciences Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences Rajasthan University of Health Sciences Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences Srimanta Sankaradeva University of Health Sciences Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University West Bengal University of Health Sciences References External links Official website The All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is a group of autonomous government public medical universities of higher education under the jurisdiction of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare , Government of India. These institutes have been declared by an Act of Parliament as Institutes of National Importance. AIIMS New Delhi, the forerunner institute, was established in 1956 under administration of Jawaharlal Nehru. Since then, 24 more institutes were announced. As of January 2023, twenty institutes are operating and four more are expected to become operational until 2025. Proposals were made for six more AIIMS. It is considered as pioneer health institution of South Asia. History The foundation stone of AIIMS Delhi was laid in 1952. The first AIIMS was established in 1956 under the All India Institute of Medical Sciences Act, 1956 under Jawaharlal Nehru. Originally proposed to be established in Calcutta, it was established in New Delhi following the refusal of Chief Minister of West Bengal Bidhan Chandra Roy. The act established AIIMS New Delhi, which was then known simply as All India Institute of Medical Sciences, and gave it the Institutes of National Importance (INI) status.In 2003,the government of india announced the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) initiative which aimed at correcting regional imbalances in the availability of affordable/reliable tertiary healthcare services. This was to be done through two main channels: setting up AIIMS-like institutions and upgrading government medical colleges. Though the announcement was made in 2003 during Atal Bihari Vajpayee's tenure, the project was delayed owing to the power shift at the centre. PMSSY was officially launched in March 2006 and six AIIMS-like medical institutes were announced. The six institutes become operational through an Ordinance from September 2012. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Amendment) Bill, 2012 was introduced in the Lok Sabha on 27 August 2012 in order to replace that Ordinance. Lok Sabha passed the Bill on 30 August 2012, it was introduced in Rajya Sabha on 3 September 2012 and passed on 4 September 2012. The Act was published on 13 September 2012.The act also allowed the institutes to operate more autonomously, and awarded them the INI status. It also conferred the power to establish other AIIMS-like institutes by gazette notification and give them equal status. Phase I PMSSY was officially launched in March 2006 and six AIIMS-like medical institutes were announced for under-served states in Patna, Bhopal, Raipur, Bhubaneswar, Jodhpur and Rishikesh. Theses were originally assigned ₹332 crore (equivalent to ₹11 billion or US$130 million in 2023) per institution, a sum which was raised to ₹820 crore (equivalent to ₹18 billion or US$230 million in 2023) in 2010. They were later retroactively denoted Phase I institutes. Phase II In 2013 a further gazette notification was made under the same Act, establishing AIIMS Raebareli. It was later denoted as Phase-II of PMSSY. Phase III Six medical college hospitals in Uttar Pradesh will be modernized and converted into super- speciality facility on the lines of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Uttar Pradesh, has influenced the decision to add two more colleges to the already cleared list of medical colleges that will be upgraded under Phase 3 of Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY). The four already under the third phase of the programme are the ones at Gorakhpur, Allahabad, Meerut and Jhansi. Apart from this, Sarojini Naidu Medical College, Agra and Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial (GSVM) Medical College, Kanpur also join the PMSSY list. Phase IV In July 2014, in the budget speech for 2014–15, the Minister of Finance Arun Jaitley announced a budget of ₹500 crore (equivalent to ₹799 crore or US$100 million in 2023) for setting up four new AIIMS, in Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra and the Purvanchal region in Uttar Pradesh. These Phase-IV institutes, became AIIMS Mangalagiri in Andhra Pradesh and AIIMS Nagpur in Maharashtra, established in 2018 and later AIIMS Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh and AIIMS Kalyani in West Bengal, which started operation in 2019. Phase V On 28 February 2015, in the 2015–2016 budget speech, Jaitley announced five more AIIMS, in Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Assam and Tamil Nadu and an AIIMS-like institute in Bihar. On 7 November 2015, Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi had announced development package for Jammu & Kashmir which includes the setting up of two AIIMS, in the capital cities of Jammu and Kashmir. Of these seven Phase-V institutes, sites have been assigned for at Changsari, near Guwahati, in Assam, Vijay Pur in the Jammu Division of Jammu and Kashmir, Awantipora in the Kashmir Division of Jammu and Kashmir, Bathinda in Punjab, Bilaspur in Himachal Pradesh, Madurai in Tamil Nadu and the latest, Darbhanga in Bihar, which was finally approved in September 2020. In December 2018 the government has approved and assigned funds for the AIIMS in Madurai, and a foundation stone was set in January 2019. AIIMS Bathinda started operation in 2019. AIIMS Bilaspur, AIIMS Guwahati and AIIMS Vijaypur became operational in 2020. Phase VI On 1 February 2017, in the budget presentation for 2017–2018, Jaitley announced two more AIIMS, in Jharkhand and Gujarat. Of these Phase-VI institutes, sites were identified in Deoghar for the institute in Jharkhand and in Khandheri near Rajkot for Gujarat. AIIMS Deoghar started operation in 2019 and AIIMS Rajkot in 2020. Phase VII A week after the 2017–2018 budget presentation, on 9 February 2017, Jaitley announced an AIIMS in Telangana. On 17 December 2018, the cabinet approved the AIIMS, to be located in Bibinagar, near Hyderabad. This institute was later denoted as Phase-VII. It started operation in August 2019. Phase VIII On 1 February 2019, in the presentation of the interim budget for 2019–2020, Piyush Goyal, who was given temporary charge of the Minister of Finance a week earlier, announced an AIIMS in Haryana. This institute was later denoted as Phase-VIII. In March, the cabinet approved the institute in Majra Mustal Bhalkhi, Rewari district. Additional proposed AIIMSs An additional AIIMS was proposed in Ranchi, Jharkhand.On March 1, 2022 PM Narendra Modi announced an AIIMS for the state of Manipur under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Scheme. Institutes As of January 2022, 5 AIIMS still are under development. In February 2022, the health ministry stated that all 24 new AIIMS will be functional by February 2025. There are also proposals for establishing AIIMS in Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Karnataka, Calicut, Mizoram & Tripura. Admissions AIIMS (New Delhi) was originally established as a super-specialty tertiary care centre with primary emphasis on research and specialized training facilities. MBBS is the basic medical course at bachelor's degree level. This is followed by master's degree level specialisation in general surgery, general internal medicine, pediatrics and other fields. Superspecialties are those healthcare fields whose practitioners need specialised certification after completing their postgraduation, examples being cardiothoracic and vascular surgery, rheumatology, neurology, and pediatric neurology. There are at least 45 superspecialties at AIIMS (New Delhi) at higher master's degree level. AIIMS also offers MSc and PhD level research courses. There are about forty-two specialty post-graduate courses conducted at AIIMS (New Delhi). The entry is through a nationwide competitive examination, AIIMS PG, held every six months. Each year nearly 50 thousand medical graduates and 25 thousand dental graduates across the country compete for the limited number of positions, approximately <1% of the candidates are admitted through the process. AIIMS publishes The National Medical Journal of India. Changes in Entrance Examination pattern under the provisions of NMC Bill 2019 As per the latest official notification released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, AIIMS, JIPMER -Puducherry, PGIMER -Chandigarh & all INIs (Institutes of National Importance) were directed to not conduct any Undergraduate entrance exams from 2020 onwards. Government has said that from 2020 session onwards, all such undergraduate admissions would be taken up only through a single national level examination NEET-UG conducted by NTA (National Testing Agency). Many field experts however criticized this exam unification, specifically with respect to AIIMS (New Delhi), citing the reason that the level of questions in AIIMS-UG entrance exams (for both MBBS & BSc Nursing courses separately) used to be of such a higher & deep logical-conceptual thinking capabilities, that they eventually served a greater advantage for selecting the most desirable students for such scientific courses. See also Healthcare in India Indian states ranking by institutional delivery List of hospitals in India A medical science liaison (MSL) is a healthcare consulting professional who is employed by pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and managed care companies. Other job titles for medical science liaisons may include medical liaisons, clinical science liaisons, medical science managers, regional medical scientists, and regional medical directors. The term MSL was originally trademarked by Upjohn as Education services – namely, initiation of drug studies in laboratory and clinical settings and development of workshops, symposia, and seminars for physicians, medical societies, specialty organizations, academicians, in concert, concerned with drug related medical topics in 1967 and with first use in commerce in 1967.As the number of MSL programs in healthcare increased, subsequent peer-reviewed journal publications and books became available to examine the emerging role of medical affairs and the use of MSLs in an increasingly vertically integrated biotechnology industry. Role MSLs build relationships with key opinion leaders or thought leaders and health care providers, providing critical windows of insight into the market and competition. Through such monitoring, MSLs can gain access to key influencers by interacting with national and regional societies and organizations. Moreover, as MSLs specialize in a particular therapeutic area and have scientific knowledge related to it. The educational background of MSLs consists primarily of MDs, DMSc, PharmD, and PhD professionals. Other professions who work as MSLs include Physician Assistants and Nurses. According to the program's advocates, the Board Certified Medical Affairs Specialist (BCMAS) program is the recognized MSL board certification for MSL professionals. They are now highly involved in activities related to clinical trials. Responsibilities The medical science liaison role is varied and day-to-day activities include (but are not limited to); Managing investigator initiated studies Performing KOL stakeholder mapping Developing collaborative relationships with KOLs Organising advisory boards Maintaining a high level of therapeutic area knowledge Training sales representatives Providing medical review to ensure all company materials are compliant and accurately reflect the body of scientific evidence Delivering insights from KOLs to inform the medical affairs strategy See also Biopharmaceutical Pharmaceutical manufacturing Pharmaceutical marketing A Bachelor of Medical Sciences (BMedSci, BMedSc, BSc(Med), BMSc) is an undergraduate academic degree involving study of a variety of disciplines related to human health leading to an in depth understanding of human biology and associated research skills such as study design, statistics and laboratory techniques. Such disciplines include biochemistry, cell biology, physiology, pharmacology or psychosocial aspects of health. It is an equivalent level qualification to the more commonly awarded Bachelor of Science (BSc). Graduates may enter a diverse range of roles including post-graduate study, higher education, the biotechnology industry, the pharmaceutical industry, consultancy roles, scientific communication, education or unrelated disciplines which make use of the broad range of transferable skills gained through this degree. Australia In Australia, the Bachelor of Medical Sciences (BMedSc) degree is offered by The University of Adelaide, Griffith University, University of New South Wales, University of Sydney, Monash University, Australian National University, University of Western Sydney, University of Newcastle, Flinders University, Charles Sturt University, Macquarie University , Central Queensland University and The University of the Sunshine Coast. Canada At the University of Western Ontario, BMSc is a four-year degree offered by the Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry. It is differentiated from a BSc due to the advanced medical sciences orientation of the courses offered such as Anatomy and Pharmacology.The University of Alberta offers a BMSc to Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry students who did not complete a bachelor's degree prior to entry into the program. India In India, BMSc is an undergraduate degree offered by top universities like Panjab University, Punjabi University, Indian Institutes of Technology and the R. G. Kar Medical College and Hospital. United Kingdom In the United Kingdom, the Bachelor of Medical Sciences degree can be awarded in four situations; firstly as a standalone 3-year first degree, secondly, as a consequence of taking an extra year during a medical or dental course (termed intercalating), thirdly as an additional part of a medical degree but without any additional years of study, and fourthly as an exit award if a student wishes to leave their primary medical or dental undergraduate course. When the degree is obtained without any additional years of study, it may not be viewed as an equivalent qualification. For example, the UK Foundation Programme Office (the British body which manages first jobs for new medical graduates) places less value on a BMedSc degree if an additional year of study has not been undertaken. Regardless of the way in which the degree is obtained, a research project typically forms a large component of the degree as well as formal teaching in medical science related disciplines. Bachelor of Medical Sciences degrees are awarded as a standalone 3-year course by the University of Chester, University of Exeter, University of Birmingham, the University of Sheffield, Bangor University, Oxford Brookes University, De Montfort University, and the University of St Andrews. Medical schools which award an intercalated Bachelor of Medical Sciences after an additional year of study are Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry, the University of Birmingham, the University of Dundee, the University of Edinburgh the University of Aberdeen and the University of Sheffield. The University of Nottingham and the University of Southampton award the degree as a standard part of their undergraduate medicine courses without an additional year of study (students must undertake a research project). Egypt In Egypt, the bachelor of medical sciences is awarded after four years of study in addition to an internship year in which interns are trained in multiple public and university hospitals. The degree is offered in five universities in Egypt: October 6 University, Misr University for Science and Technology, Pharos University in Alexandria, Beni-Suef University and Menoufia University. Faculties of applied medical sciences offer various disciplines for students to choose from, including medical laboratories, radiology and medical imaging, therapeutic nutrition, and biomedical equipment. In 2015, the Central Authority For Organization and Administration (CAOA) granted the holders of the bachelor of medical sciences the title of specialist in the corresponding specialty. All India Institute of Medical Sciences Bhubaneswar (AIIMS Bhubaneswar), formerly Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose All India Institute of Medical Sciences, is a medical college and medical research public university located in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India. The institute operates autonomously under the aegis of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. It was established in 2012 and the foundation stone was laid by late Bharat Ratna; Atal Bihari Vajpayee, on 15 July 2003. History All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (Amendment) Bill, 2012 The All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (Amendment) Bill, 2012, was introduced in the Lok Sabha on 27 August 2012. This bill replaced an ordinance that allowed the six AIIMS—like institutes to become operational by September 2012. Lok Sabha passed the AIIMS (Amendment) Bill, 2012 on 30 August 2012. The proposed measure helped the centre to change the status of the six new AIIMS registered under the Indian Societies Registration Act to be an Autonomous Corporate Body like the AIIMS in Delhi. AIIMS(Amendment) Bill, 2012 was introduced in Rajya Sabha on 3 September 2012 and passed on 4 September 2012. Developments On 29 November 2012, AIIMS Bhubaneswar, in partnership with the OTTET, Bhubaneswar and Technical Assistance from SGPGI, Lucknow, started a regional telemedicine centre on its campus. A Department of Community Medicine and Family Medicine at AIIMS Bhubaneswar was inaugurated by RDC (Central Division) on 7 January 2013. The hospital facility at AIIMS Bhubaneswar opened in Summer 2013 with 1,000 beds and 39 specialty branches. A 75-bed hospital and a 10-bed Intensive care unit (ICU) began functioning in August 2013. There will be wards with 15 beds each of cancer, obstetrics and gynaecology, medicine, ophthalmology and surgery. On 26 February 2014, the institute's hospital was formally inaugurated. Location AIIMS Bhubaneswar is situated on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. It was built on about 100 acres of land in the Sijua neighborhood of Bhubaneswar. AIIMS – Bhubaneswar is divided into three sections: a hospital, medical college, and residential complex. The hospital was built by AIIMS at a cost of ₹2.64 billion (US$33 million). Approximately ₹1 billion (US$13 million) was projected to be spent for the construction of the medical college and ₹500 million (US$6.3 million) for the construction of the student housing. There will also be a 350-bed satellite location in Kalama village, Jaleswar block, Balasore district. 978-bed AIIMS Bhubaneswar was inaugurated by Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Ghulam Nabi Azad on 26 February 2014. Campus The AIIMS Campus extends over 100 acres, consisting of the hospital complex and residential area. The hospital complex consists of a 900-bed multi speciality hospital with 43 departments. The Academic Area present in the complex houses the Academic Block, College of Nursing and Central Library. The Academic Blocks consists of 4 Lecture Halls and Departmental Labs of Anatomy, Physiology, Biochemistry, Pathology, Microbiology, Pharmacology, Forensic Medicine, Community Medicine. All the 41 departments have departmental cabins, labs, library room as well as conference rooms. A stationery and snacks outlet is also housed in the Academic Building. The Academic Building also houses the offices of Director, Dean, Admin and other staff departments like Finance, Electric, Engineers and the central library. The residential complex consists of three Boys hostels and two girls Hostels for Undergraduate Students of MBBS, Nursing and Allied Sciences. The hostels have an 800-room capacity. Four Postgraduate Hostels along with four Staff and Faculty Blocks are also present. The Director's Bungalow and Guest House is located near Main Residential Gate. Hospital Services The hospital has a total of 43 Departments including the pre clinical, para clinical, speciality and super speciality departments. It houses about 920 beds including private beds with 40 additional disaster beds. A New Trauma Level 1 Centre and Burn Speciality Building is under construction. A 500 Bed Patient Relative Resting Shelter Dharamsala supported by NALCO is also completed and will soon be opened for public use. Telemedicine Services are provided through a dedicated app called AIIMS Bhubaneswar Swasthya App developed by CDAC Noida. Other than this whatsapp and voice call facilities are also provided. As part of COVID CARE, Convalescent Plasma Therapy had been started in Hospital. Academics The first academic year began on 21 September 2012 with a class of 50 MBBS students. The Second class of 100 undergraduate students from across India began in August 2013. The 1st Nursing class of 60 students were admitted in September 2013. Ranking AIIMS Bhubaneswar ranked 17 in India by the National Institutional Ranking Framework medical ranking for 2023. Thus, it is the 3rd best AIIMS after AIIMS, Delhi and AIIMS, Jodhpur. Satellite center There is a plan to set up a satellite center of AIIMS Bhubneshwar at Balasore, on an area of about 25 acres (0.10 km2).The foundation stone for satellite centre at Balasore was laid on 25 August 2018 by Union Minister of Health J. P. Nadda. The 24.91 acres center will have a 300 bedded multi-specialty hospital. Directors Ashok Kumar Mahapatra (2012–2016) Gitanjali Batmanabane (2016–2021) Mukesh Tripathi (2021–2022) (additional charge) Ashutosh Biswas (2022–) Student life The students are represented by the Students' Union AIIMS Bhubaneswar, headed by an executive body that is elected every year of 6th semester students voted by all the students from 2nd semester. The first Students' Union was elected on 27 February 2015 after the first batch attended 6th semester and was headed by founder president Dr. Sambit Sagar and vice president Dr. Avnish Kumar Singh. The first Students' Union is credited with organising the first ever Inter AIIMS Inter Medics fest named Chiasma 2K16 from 4 to 7 February 2016 acknowledging AIIMS Bhubaneswar as the first institution amongst its siblings to take such an initiative. The medi fest registered participation of medical students from AIIMS along with medical students from state government and private medical colleges who showcased their talents. The next chiasma 2k19 was organised by the Students' Union of 2014 class of medical students from all over India. Prof. Dr. Subrat Kumar Acharya was nominated as President of AIIMS Bhubaneswar in November, 2018. He was awarded Padma Shree in 2014 for his contribution in the field of medicine and has been associated with AIIMS for 40 years.The first convocation of AIIMS, Bhubaneshwar was held on 25 August. The Vice-President of India, Venkaiah Naidu, was the chief guest of the convocation. In his speech, he called for posting of young doctors in rural area for their first 3 years. References External links Official website The Uttar Pradesh University of Medical Sciences, formerly U.P. Rural Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, is a medical school, hospital and medical research public university located at Saifai in the Etawah District of Uttar Pradesh, India. It came into being after the upgrade of UP Rural Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (established in 2005) by Government of Uttar Pradesh under Act 15 of 2016. History In 2005, U.P. Rural Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, a state government run medical college affiliated with Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University, Kanpur was established in Saifai village, District Etawah, Uttar Pradesh. It was established by UPRIMS&R, Saifai, Act 2005 notified on 15 December 2005. M.B.B.S. course started in 2006, M.D. course started in 2011, M.S. course started in 2013 and M.D.S. course started in 2014. Paramedical and Nursing Colleges of Institute started in 2012 with diploma and bachelor's degree courses and Pharmacy College started in 2015 with bachelor's degree course. In February 2015, Government of Uttar Pradesh started the process of establishing a university of medical sciences in Saifai, Etawah by upgrading existing U.P. Rural Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. On 4 February 2015, the state assembly passed a bill named Uttar Pradesh University of Medical Sciences, Saifai, Etawah Bill-2015. On 2 May 2016 the Bill was approved and it became a university on 5 June 2016.After becoming University, M.Ch. courses started in 2020 and from acedmic year 2023, university started paramedical master's degree.In 2023, NIRF ranked it among top 101-125 Pharmacy colleges/universities in India. Ranking It is ranked one of top 125 Pharmacy Colleges in India in 2023 by central government ranking. It got the highest rating of 'A' in Uttar Pradesh among Para Medical Colleges by state government ranking. Collaborations Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur Vice-chancellors Prabhat Kumar Singh (19 January 2022 – present) Ramakant Yadav (10 May 2021 - 18 January 2022) Raj Kumar (1 June 2018 - 9 May 2021) T. Prabhakar (12 July 2016 - 31 May 2018) Facilities The university is running full-fledged Medical College, Dental College (postgraduate), Paramedical College, Nursing College, Pharmacy College, Multi Specialty 850 bedded hospital and 150 bedded trauma and burn center. 500 bedded super specialty hospital and 300 bedded Obstetrics & Gynecology and Pediatrics hospital is being established in the university by Government of Uttar Pradesh at cost of 750 ₹ crores which will be spread across 50 acres of land. Constituent colleges Medical College, founded in 2005 as U.P. Gramin Ayurvigyan Avam Anusandhan Sansthan (U.P. Rural Institute of Medical Sciences and Research in English). It was affiliated with Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University till 2016 with all other constituent colleges except one. College of Dentistry(postgraduate), started in the year of 2014 with 2 Postgraduate seats. Paramedical Vigyan Mahavidyalaya, proposed in the year of 2006 and started in the year of 2012. College of Nursing, started in the year of 2012. Pharmacy College Saifai, started in the year of 2015. Unlike other colleges, instead of Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University, it was affiliated with Uttar Pradesh Technical University (UPTU) for the academic session of 2015–16. It is first grant-in-aid college run by Uttar Pradesh Government offering B.Pharm. degree. Multidisciplinary Research Unit As of 2021, it has one of 80 Multidisciplinary Research Unit (MRU) established by Department of Health Research (Government of India) along various Government Medical Colleges across India. References External links Official website Biomedical sciences are a set of sciences applying portions of natural science or formal science, or both, to develop knowledge, interventions, or technology that are of use in healthcare or public health. Such disciplines as medical microbiology, clinical virology, clinical epidemiology, genetic epidemiology, and biomedical engineering are medical sciences. In explaining physiological mechanisms operating in pathological processes, however, pathophysiology can be regarded as basic science. Biomedical Sciences, as defined by the UK Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education Benchmark Statement in 2015, includes those science disciplines whose primary focus is the biology of human health and disease and ranges from the generic study of biomedical sciences and human biology to more specialised subject areas such as pharmacology, human physiology and human nutrition. It is underpinned by relevant basic sciences including anatomy and physiology, cell biology, biochemistry, microbiology, genetics and molecular biology, pharmacology, immunology, mathematics and statistics, and bioinformatics. As such the biomedical sciences have a much wider range of academic and research activities and economic significance than that defined by hospital laboratory sciences. Biomedical Sciences are the major focus of bioscience research and funding in the 21st century. Roles within biomedical science A sub-set of biomedical sciences is the science of clinical laboratory diagnosis. This is commonly referred to in the UK as 'biomedical science' or 'healthcare science'. There are at least 45 different specialisms within healthcare science, which are traditionally grouped into three main divisions: specialisms involving life sciences specialisms involving physiological science specialisms involving medical physics or bioengineering Life sciences specialties Molecular toxicology Molecular pathology Blood transfusion science Cervical cytology Clinical biochemistry Clinical embryology Clinical immunology Clinical pharmacology and therapeutics Electron microscopy External quality assurance Haematology Haemostasis and thrombosis Histocompatibility and immunogenetics Histopathology and cytopathology Molecular genetics and cytogenetics Molecular biology and cell biology Microbiology including mycology Bacteriology Tropical diseases Phlebotomy Tissue banking/transplant Virology Physiological science specialisms Physics and bioengineering specialisms Biomedical science in the United Kingdom The healthcare science workforce is an important part of the UK's National Health Service. While people working in healthcare science are only 5% of the staff of the NHS, 80% of all diagnoses can be attributed to their work.The volume of specialist healthcare science work is a significant part of the work of the NHS. Every year, NHS healthcare scientists carry out: nearly 1 billion pathology laboratory tests more than 12 million physiological tests support for 1.5 million fractions of radiotherapyThe four governments of the UK have recognised the importance of healthcare science to the NHS, introducing the Modernising Scientific Careers initiative to make certain that the education and training for healthcare scientists ensures there is the flexibility to meet patient needs while keeping up to date with scientific developments. Graduates of an accredited biomedical science degree programme can also apply for the NHS' Scientist training programme, which gives successful applicants an opportunity to work in a clinical setting whilst also studying towards an MSc or Doctoral qualification. Biomedical Science in the 20th century At this point in history the field of medicine was the most prevalent sub field of biomedical science, as several breakthroughs on how to treat diseases and help the immune system were made. As well as the birth of body augmentations. 1910s In 1912, the Institute of Biomedical Science was founded in the United Kingdom. The institute is still standing today and still regularly publishes works in the major breakthroughs in disease treatments and other breakthroughs in the field 117 years later. The IBMS today represents approximately 20,000 members employed mainly in National Health Service and private laboratories. 1920s In 1928, British Scientist Alexander Fleming discovered the first antibiotic penicillin. This was a huge breakthrough in biomedical science because it allowed for the treatment of bacterial infections.In 1926, the first artificial pacemaker was made by Australian physician Dr. Mark C. Lidwell. This portable machine was plugged into a lighting point. One pole was applied to a skin pad soaked with strong salt solution, while the other consisted of a needle insulated up to the point and was plunged into the appropriate cardiac chamber and the machine started. A switch was incorporated to change the polarity. The pacemaker rate ranged from about 80 to 120 pulses per minute and the voltage also variable from 1.5 to 120 volts. 1930s The 1930s was a huge era for biomedical research, as this was the era where antibiotics became more widespread and vaccines started to be developed. In 1935, the idea of a polio vaccine was introduced by Dr. Maurice Brodie. Brodie prepared a died poliomyelitis vaccine, which he then tested on chimpanzees, himself, and several children. Brodie's vaccine trials went poorly since the polio-virus became active in many of the human test subjects. Many subjects had fatal side effects, paralyzing, and causing death. 1940s During and after World War II, the field of biomedical science saw a new age of technology and treatment methods. For instance in 1941 the first hormonal treatment for prostate cancer was implemented by Urologist and cancer researcher Charles B. Huggins. Huggins discovered that if you remove the testicles from a man with prostate cancer, the cancer had nowhere to spread, and nothing to feed on thus putting the subject into remission. This advancement lead to the development of hormonal blocking drugs, which is less invasive and still used today. At the tail end of this decade, the first bone marrow transplant was done on a mouse in 1949. The surgery was conducted by Dr. Leon O. Jacobson, he discovered that he could transplant bone marrow and spleen tissues in a mouse that had both no bone marrow and a destroyed spleen. The procedure is still used in modern medicine today and is responsible for saving countless lives. 1950s In the 1950s, we saw innovation in technology across all fields, but most importantly there were many breakthroughs which led to modern medicine. On 6 March 1953, Dr. Jonas Salk announced the completion of the first successful killed-virus Polio vaccine. The vaccine was tested on about 1.6 million Canadian, American, and Finnish children in 1954. The vaccine was announced as safe on 12 April 1955. See also Biomedical research institution Austral University Hospital References External links Extraordinary You: Case studies of Healthcare scientists in the UK's National Health Service National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences The US National Library of Medicine National Health Service All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, also known as AIIMS Delhi, is a public medical research university and hospital in New Delhi, India. The institute is governed by the AIIMS Act, 1956 and operates autonomously under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. History The idea of AIIMS arose in 1946, after a recommendation by the Health Survey of the Government of India. From then to the establishment and development of AIIMS (New Delhi) over the ensuing years, several illustrious individuals played their part in bringing the idea to fruition. Originally proposed by the then Prime Minister of India Jawaharlal Nehru for establishment in Calcutta, it was established in New Delhi following the refusal of Chief Minister of West Bengal Bidhan Chandra Roy. The foundation stone of AIIMS Delhi was laid in 1952.On February 18, 1956, the then Minister of Health, Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, introduced a new bill in the Lok Sabha, that would eventually become the AIIMS Act. It has been one of my cherished dreams that for post graduate study and for the maintenance of high standards of medical education in our country, we should have an institute of this nature which would enable our young men and women to have their post graduate education in their own country, she said. The old and new main OPD blocks at AIIMS, New Delhi are named after her. When the bill was adopted in May 1956, it became the All India Institute of Medical Sciences Act, 1956. Campuses The whole campus is spread over an area of 213.12 acres. Main campus AIIMS, New Delhi's main campus is located in Ansari Nagar in Delhi. It is adjacent to the South Extension-II market and lies on both sides of the Sir Aurobindo Marg, southwards to the AIIMS Roundabout flyover crossing. AIIMS, New Delhi's main campus is divided into five smaller campuses: East Campus – Containing OPD Block, Main Hospital Block, Ward Block, Medical College, Research Section, Convergence Block, BB Dixit Library, Administrative Wing, Undergraduates Hostels, Central Lawn, Jawaharlal Auditorium and staff quarters. The 4 Specialty Centers for Cardiothoracic + Neurosciences, Cancer Center, Center for Ophthalmic Sciences and Center for Dental Education and Research are also within this East Campus. West Campus – It comprises mainly staff quarters and residences. JPNA Trauma Center – It is exclusively designated for Emergency services. In June 2018, a tunnel and ramp road link between the east campus and JPNA Trauma Center Campus was also opened. This link route is very useful in fast transferring of critical patients across the two Campuses. Beside JPNA Trauma Center, new 100 Bed Plastic and Burns Surgical Unit Hospital is also running, it will also comprise a Skin Bank for Burns Injuries. Masjid Moth Campus – This site contains new Post-Graduate and Resident Doctor's apartments. Underground parking block is also situated here. Upcoming New OPD Block, Mother and Child Care Unit, Surgical Block and Geriatric Block are also under construction here. These new blocks are aimed to reduce the patient load on the present OPD block in East Campus which is currently overhauled by nearly approx. 10,000 out-patients per day. Ayurvigyan Nagar Campus – It is too for faculty and staff's residential accommodations.Across AIIMS is Safdarjung Hospital and associated Vardhman Mahavir Medical College (of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University). Also, adjacently lies the headquarters of Indian Council of Medical Research, the body that coordinates and funds medical research in India. In vicinity, also lies National Medical Library, run by the Directorate-General of Health Services of the Government of India. It has a vast collection of scientific and medical journals that can be accessed by researchers. Extension campuses of AIIMS New Delhi Jhajjar-AIIMS-II The second campus of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS-II), spread over 330 acres (1.335 square kilometres) of land was visualized during the period of Prof. Tirath Das Dogra as Director AIIMS Delhi and Anbumani Ramadoss (President, AIIMS), Minister of Health and Family welfare union of India in 2009 at Bhadsha village [also spelled Badsa] in Haryana's Jhajjar district. AIIMS-II was thought to be developed as the largest medical Education centre for super-specialities in the world to meet the enormous need of super-specialists in various field in India. The 330 acres of land was donated by the then Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, of Haryana to Anbumani Ramadoss, in presence of Director AIIMS Tirath Das Dogra, in a big public function on 28 February 2009 at the proposed site. The National Cancer Institute is first to come up, next is the National Cardiovascular centre as a joint venture between Govt of Haryana and Union health ministry in a series of future developments as envisaged. The next under the plan is a unique collaborative centre between IITD-Jhajjar campus located adjacent to the AIIMS (New Delhi)'s Jhajjar Extension. They jointly are to set up a biomedical research park, running joint PhD/research programmes managed through the Foundation for Innovation and Technology Transfer (FITT). National Cancer Institute (NCI) and upcoming National Heart Institute The 710 bedded National Cancer Institute of India and Infectious and Community Diseases Centre at AIIMS (New Delhi)'s Jhajjar Extension Campus is constructed at a cost of ₹2,034 crores on 32 acres along the lines of National Cancer Institute of the USA and it is focused on treatment and research on the India-specific cancer.It became operational on 18 December 2018 including OPD, lab and 250-bed hospital which will be expanded to 710 beds by December 2019. It is headed by Dr. G.K. Rath former Head of Department of Oncology at AIIMS (New Delhi). National Heart Institute (India) is also being established here. A heliport is being developed here in January 2019 for the Air Ambulance to serve emergency patients from remote areas. Ballabhgarh Extension campus Ballabhgarh, established in 1965, is an extension campus of AIIMS in Ballabhgarh city of Faridabad district in Haryana. This rural field practice OPD campus was set up in collaboration with Government of Haryana as Comprehensive Rural Health Services Project – Ballabgarh Health and Demographic Surveillance System. In 1961 Rural Field Practice was established at AIIMS (New Delhi) with the help of Rockefeller Foundation. In 1965, the Comprehensive Rural Health Services Project was set up at Ballabgarh with a 50-bed hospital, 24 hr emergency and obstetric facilities, outpatient services in medicine, surgery, pediatrics, gynaecology and obstetrics, eye, otorhinolaryngology, psychiatry, physical medicine and rehabilitation, pediatric surgery, dental care, homeopathy, NCD clinic, ANC (Antenatal Checkup) clinic, immunization clinic, laboratory, radiological and ultra-sonography services. Ghaziabad Extension campus An intensive field practice area, the National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre is an extension campus of AIIMS (New Delhi) in Ghaziabad city of Uttar Pradesh.The Drug Dependence Treatment Centre, AIIMS was established in the year 1988 and was functional in New Delhi. In 2003 it was upgraded as a National Centre (National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre) and is fully operational from its new premises in Ghaziabad, Delhi-NCR since April 2003. NDDTC has been established as the apex centre for treatment of drugs and substance abuse disorders in the country. It provides a state of art model for de‐addiction treatments. This centre has full range of specialists and facilities. The NDDTC is situated on 10 acre beautiful campus. It is presently having 50 bedded treatment facilities PhD Programme in the area of Addiction Psychiatry and DM (Addiction Psychiatry) Programme started since year 2012 and 2015 respectively. The Ex-Chief of the centre was a member of the International Narcotics Control Board (INCB), a monitoring body under the United Nations. NDDTC has been designated as a WHO Collaborating Centre on Substance Abuse (2012-2020) AIIMS (New Delhi) Campus Redevelopment Master plan 2019 In February 2019 The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister of India has given 'in principle' approval to the Implementation of Master Plan to convert All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi into a world class Medical University.The visualization at the time of institute's construction (in 1950s) was for a limited number of patients. The medical institute was established as a tertiary-care centre, but now it has turned into a primary care centre. Over time, the requirement has increased manifold. The upcoming master plan will now have a vision for the next decade. The Master Plan envisages freeing up adequate space through redevelopment, vertical expansion and reorganizing the land usage, thus optimizing the infrastructure of the Institute for the next 20 years. It is proposed to re-develop the infrastructure of AIIMS, New Delhi by consolidating the Patient Care, Teaching, Research, Administration and support services in areas in the East Ansari Nagar (Main) Campus and residential facilities from East Ansari Nagar (Main Campus) to Trauma Centre Extension (New Rajnagar) Campus.Benefits: The project would provide highly specialized state-of-the-art healthcare to the patients and an integrated 'One Campus' answer to all the investigative, physiotherapeutic, operative, rehabilitative and vocational needs of the patients. It would ensure smart mobility and accessibility for the patients and become an apex tertiary care centre for advancement of research, clinical applications and management of patients. Works expected as per the Redevelopment Master plan By 2024, AIIMS (New Delhi) will add around 3,000 more beds to its existing strength of 2,478 beds. So there will be a facility of approximately 5,500 beds in service by then.A move that will come as a relief for thousands of patients who visit the hospital every day as presently the hospital sees a daily footfall of almost 15,000 patients and their attendants. It also aims to strengthen patient-care services and residential facilities for faculty members and staff. Officials said the estimated cost of executing the master plan is around ₹10,345 crore, including ₹1,000 crore for hiring manpower. The project will be completed in two phases; while Phase 1 will be completed in 46 months, the second phase will be finalized in 70 months. As per the plan, a convention centre, a guesthouse with 40 rooms, a hostel with more than 4,500 rooms and 500 residential units with allied car parking will be set up. As there is no scope of further expansion with the limited availability of land, residential facilities stretching from Trauma Centre campus, West Campus (Ansari Nagar) to East Campus (Ansari Nagar) and Ayurvigyan Nagar Campus will be relocated. This will free up space in the main campus and allow to expand vertically.With senior faculty members raising issues of shortage of labs and operation theaters in the institute, the administration hopes the upcoming project will look into that concern. This new plan will also create scope for research projects, which have been pending due to space constraints. Healthcare Medical facilities Clinical statistics for session 2017–2018 Specialty centres Dr. Rajendra Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences: Establisted in 1967 by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, it is a 310-bed ophthalmic (eyes) specialty centre. Dr. BR Ambedkar Institute Rotary Cancer Hospital: It specialises in the treatment of cancer and hosts departments viz. surgical, medical and radiation oncology. Total beds are 182. Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Centre: It is India's first full-fledged centre to treat victims of trauma. It is located about 1 km west of the main campus. It has a bed strength of 243. Centre for Dental Education and Research: Located adjacent to the Hostels, is AIIMS' newest specialty centre. The centre commenced a 4-year collaboration with WHO for oral health promotion. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of the Government of India designated this centre as National Centre for Excellence for implementation of National Oral Health Programme in the country. This centre provides technical support on oral health to the government and WHO. Despite having very few faculty members, this centre has been giving best research output per person in the country. It contains 17 beds. Cardiothoracic and Neurosciences Centre: Offers superspecialty patient care, training and research in the respective fields. Containing totally 464 beds. National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre, Ghaziabad: It is a WHO collaborating centre on substance abuse containing 50 beds. Centre for Community Medicine, Ballabhgarh: It maintains a teaching and treatment facility at Ballabgarh, which is a periurban area outside Delhi, it also provides comprehensive services to 84000 population. Faculty members from AIIMS (New Delhi) are posted there by rotation. It contains 50 beds. Academics Admissions AIIMS (New Delhi) was originally established as a super-specialty tertiary care centre with primary emphasis on research and specialized training facilities. MBBS is the basic medical course at bachelor's degree level. This is followed by master's degree level specialisation in general surgery, general medicine, pediatrics and other fields. Superspecialties are those healthcare fields whose practitioners need specialised certification after completing their postgraduation, examples being cardiothoracic and vascular surgery, rheumatology, neurology, and pediatric neurology. There are at least 45 superspecialties at AIIMS (New Delhi) at higher master's degree level. AIIMS also offers MSc and PhD level research courses. There are about forty-two specialty post-graduate courses conducted at AIIMS (New Delhi). The entry is through a nationwide competitive examination, INI-CET, held every six months. Each year nearly 50 thousand medical graduates and 25 thousand dental graduates across the country compete for the limited number of positions, approximately <1% of the candidates are admitted through the process. AIIMS publishes The National Medical Journal of India. Changes in Entrance Examination pattern under the provisions of NMC Bill 2019 As per the latest official notification released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, AIIMS, JIPMER -Puducherry, PGI -Chandigarh & all INIs (Institutes of National Importance) were directed to not to conduct any Undergraduate entrance exams from 2020 onwards. Government has said that from 2020 session onwards, all such undergraduate admissions would be taken up only through a single national level examination NEET-UG conducted by NTA (National Testing Agency). Many field experts however criticized this exam unification, specifically with respect to AIIMS (New Delhi), citing the reason that the level of questions in AIIMS-UG entrance exams (for both MBBS & BSc Nursing courses separately) used to be of such a higher & deep logical-conceptual thinking capabilities, that they eventually served a greater advantage for selecting the most desirable students for such scientific courses. And that was something really crucial for the main objectives for which AIIMS (New Delhi) was established, which are cutting-edge research, medical innovations and to demonstrate high standards of medical education to all medical colleges and allied institutions in India. Achievements Achievements AIIMS is the first Indian medical center to perform a successful cardiac transplant. The surgery was performed by P Venugopal, the ex-director of AIIMS, in 1994. AIIMS is an advanced center of stem cell therapy in India, especially cardiac and neurological. It holds a reputation of being a pioneer in stem cell injection. AIIMS has India's first and only minimally invasive surgery training center, under collaboration with Germany. The first in-vitro fertilization facility in the public sector was set up at AIIMS, New Delhi in February 2008. International rankings AIIMS New Delhi was ranked 204th in the world and first in South Asia in the category of Life Sciences and Medicine by QS WUR in 2022. The institute was also featured in the World's Best Hospitals 2020 – Top 100 by Newsweek. It was ranked 22nd in the world by Ceoworld Magazine. National rankings AIIMS New Delhi was ranked first with a score of 91.60 among medical colleges in India by the National Institutional Ranking Framework in 2022. It was also ranked first in India by India Today in 2020 and first among government colleges by Outlook India in 2022. Awards Kayakalp Award (Cleanest Medical Facility) for 3 consecutive years 2017, 2018 and 2019: First Prize for maintaining cleanliness within the institute's premises. Controversies Scams and whistleblower case On 29 June 2012, IFoS officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi was made Deputy Secretary of AIIMS (New Delhi). He was also given the charge of Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) at AIIMS. As the CVO, Chaturvedi took action in a large number of corruption cases involving:Selling of counterfeit medicines at a private on-campus pharmacy owned by an MLA Corruption in recruitment Purchase of medical equipments & consumables Financial irregularities in ₹3850 crore construction projects and tenure extension of then Head of Engineering-Wing supervising these projects Unauthorized foreign trips by doctors Single bid tendering Corruption in computerization purchases Treatment of officers' pet dog at institute Matters of subletting Pension fund scam Sexual harassment Serious violations by security contractor firmsChaturvedi initiated actions in around 200 corruption cases during his stint as AIIMS CVO; punishment was imposed in 78 cases, chargesheet was issued in 87 cases and more than 20 cases were referred to CBI for criminal investigation. These cases included the ones against senior IAS officer Vineet Chawdhry, of Himachal Pradesh cadre, who had worked earlier as Deputy. Director (Administration), former deputy director (Administration) Shailesh Yadav, a senior IPS officer, many senior faculty members, former Registrar V.P. Gupta and former Chief Administrative Officer Attar Singh. CBI inquiries and further results Subsequently, on many investigations done by Chaturvedi, CBI registered cases and recommended action against Vineet Chawdhry. As per India Today investigative report of June 2017, J P Nadda, Union Health Minister was found to have hushed up investigation into what the report termed as 7000 crore scam, detailing CBI report and scathing reports of Parliamentary Committee. Opposition parties on basis of this investigative report and documents mentioned in the report, accused Nadda of links with senior IAS officer Vineet Chawdhry who had earlier worked with Nadda in Himachal Pradesh Earlier in September 2013, CBI had registered a criminal case on basis of enquiry done by Vigilance Cell of AIIMS, regarding large scale fake payments made in security wing of AIIMS and financial irregularities into security contract award to a private company. In October 2015, CBI, on basis of enquiry done by Chaturvedi, found then AIIMS Director, Dr. M C Mishra, and certain other AIIMS officials including store officer guilty of involvement in corruption in purchase of medical items including disinfectants in trauma centre, on basis of wrong propriety certificate and recommended action against them to Health Ministry, as deemed fit. Again, in January 2018 CBI registered criminal case under sections of forgery and Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 against certain AIIMS officials for corruption in purchase in Surgery Department, to favour particular firms, on basis of enquiry report sent by Chaturvedi as CVO to CBI in May 2014. However, it was found later on that all the major corruption cases exposed and being investigated by CVO Chaturvedi, involving senior IAS, IPS officers, AIIMS Director and senior AIIMS officials were being hushed up after Chaturvedi's removal and taking over of Health Ministry by J P Nadda. In August 2014, Chaturvedi was relieved from the charge of CVO. On 16 August, he wrote a letter to the new health minister Harsh Vardhan, alleging that his removal from the CVO post was a result of campaign by corrupt officials. He was supported by AIIMS staff, who wrote a letter to the Prime Minister asking for his reinstatement. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) held protests in his support Institutional preference seats Around year 2002 AIIMS decision to reserving 33% of post-graduation seats as institutional preference seats for its own undergraduate MBBS students, resulted in a controversy as it practically resulted in a 100% reservation for subjects, was struck down by the Supreme Court of India. In 2006 Union Health Minister Anbumani Ramadoss, who was a supporter of 27% reservation for Other Backward Classes, caused a controversy when he replaced P. Venugopal with T. D. Dogra as Director of AIIMS (New Delhi). The initial personality conflict between Ramadoss and Venugopal later become politicised as a conflict on reservation issue, as anti-reservation students and faculty of AIIMS (New Delhi) went on strike in favor of Venugopal. The issue was put to rest when Venugopal was reinstated by the Supreme Court. AIIMS server attack On 23 November 2022, servers of AIIMS New Delhi were hacked by a ransomware attack after an employee opened a phishing mail. The hackers have encrypted the servers and were demanding ₹200 crores in cryptocurrency, however Delhi Police did not confirmed reports of ransom demand. Patient care services in emergency, outpatient, inpatient and laboratory wings were forced to be managed manually. Investigation has confirmed that five main servers were targeted by Chinese hackers based out of Hong Kong. Delhi Police, Representatives of Ministry of Home Affairs, Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-IN), Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) and National Informatics Centre (NIC) are investigating the ransomware attack. A case of extortion and cyber terrorism was registered by the Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) unit of the Delhi Police on November 25. The online registration of new patients visiting the OPD at the AIIMS resumed on 6 December 2022 while online OPD booking system was restored by 2nd week of December 2022. Directors Notable people Faculty Alumni Ragini Sonkar, MBBS, MD - MLA Uttar Pradesh (Machhlishahr constituency) Recipients of Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Award The following individuals who have trained or worked at AIIMS, New Delhi, have won the CSIR's Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology for research: See also AIIMS - list of all AIIMS institutes in India References External links Official website All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Rishikesh (AIIMS Rishikesh) is a medical college and hospital based in Rishikesh, Uttarakhand, India. The institute operates autonomously under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Minister for Health and Family Welfare, serves as the president. It is one of the Institutes of National Importance in India. History In 2004, Central government decided to set up new AIIMS at Rishikesh, Bhopal, Patna, Jodhpur, Bhubaneswar and Raipur Though the announcement was made in 2003 during Atal Bihari Vajpayee's tenure, the project was delayed owing to the power shift at the centre. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Amendment) Bill, 2012 was introduced in the Lok Sabha on 27 August 2012. This bill also replaced a recent Ordinance which allowed the six AIIMS institutes to become operational from September 2012. Lok Sabha passed the AIIMS (Amendment) Bill on 30 August 2012. The proposed measure will help the Centre change the status of its six new AIIMS institutes registered under the Indian Societies Registration Act to be an autonomous body corporated on the lines of the existing AIIMS in Delhi. The AIIMS (Amendment) Bill, 2012 was introduced in the Rajya Sabha on 3 September 2012. The Rajya Sabha passed the AIIMS (Amendment) Bill, 2012 on 4 September 2012. AIIMS started its academic sessions in August 2012. A 200-bed hospital at AIIMS Rishikesh was inaugurated by then Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Ghulam Nabi Azad on 10 February 2014. Hospital As of 2019, AIIMS Rishikesh hospital has 960 beds, 25 functional modular operating theatres, 17 functional super speciality and 18 speciality functional. Medical College and Nursing College AIIMS started its MBBS course with 50 students and now has an intake capacity of 125 students per year from year 2020. Nursing College has an intake of 100 students per year. Directors Raj Kumar (2012–2016) Sanjeev Misra (2016–2017) Ravi Kant (2017–2021) Arvind Rajvanshi (2021–2022, additional charge) Meenu Singh (2022–present) See also All India Institute of Medical Sciences Education in India List of medical colleges in India References External links Official website Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) is a public hospital located in Hyderabad, Telangana, India and is named after its founder – the 7th Nizam of Hyderabad– and was inaugurated by Princess Durreshehvar It is an Institute under State Legislature Act under the Act of Andhra Pradesh State Legislature. It has a big sprawling campus in Punjagutta. Overview NIMS is recognized by Medical Council of India. It is administered under the supervision of the Governing Council, Executive Board, Director and other statutory bodies. It publishes the monthly journal The Clinical Proceedings of Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences for the last 20 years. History The Nizam's Orthopaedic Hospital was inaugurated by Sri S. K. Patil, Union Minister for Railways on 22 December 1964. The first Superintendent of the hospital was M. Ranga Reddy, a well known Orthopedic Surgeon, who convinced the 7th Nizam to build a specialty hospital for Orthopedics and played an important role in its construction. The hospital was under the H.E.H. the Nizam's Charitable Trust until it was handed over to AP Government. Dr. Ranga Reddy was the administrator of the hospital also till then. Academics The institute conducts MD, MS, M. Ch, D.M, Ph.D courses in about 40 disciplines that are recognized by Medical Council of India and issues certificates. Apart from this, there are various paramedical post graduate diploma courses being conducted by the institute. Notable alumni Sree Bhushan Raju Notable faculty B. Somaraju, eminent cardiologist D. Prasada Rao, cardiothorasic surgeon, Padma Shri awardee Kakarla Subba Rao, eminent radiologist Lavu Narendranath, orthopedic surgeon, Padma Shri awardee Undurti Narasimha Das, clinical immunologist, endocrinologist and the founder president and chief executive officer of UND Life Sciences See also Hospitals established in Hyderabad State Government Nizamia General Hospital References External links Official website of NIMS All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur (AIIMS Jodhpur; IAST: Akhil Bharatiya Aayurvigyan Sansthan Jodhpur) is a medical institute and medical research public university located in Jodhpur, India. It is considered an Institute of National Importance, and is one of twenty All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). It was established in 2012 and operates autonomously under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The institute is mandated in medical education, research, patient care and the establishment of models for an affordable and quality healthcare through innovations. AIIMS Jodhpur is governed under AIIMS Act, 1956. Establishment The All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (Amendment) Bill, 2012, was introduced in the Lok Sabha on 27 August 2012. This bill replaced an Ordinance which allowed the six AIIMS institutes to become operational from September 2012. Lok Sabha passed the AIIMS (Amendment) Bill, 2012 on 30 August 2012. Prior to that, the six new AIIMS were registered under the Indian Societies Registration Act and the Bill allowed them to become autonomous bodies corporated on the lines of the existing AIIMS Delhi in Delhi. AIIMS (Amendment) Bill, 2012 was introduced in Rajya Sabha on 3 September 2012. Rajya Sabha passed the AIIMS (Amendment) Bill, 2012 on 4 September 2012, and the six AIIMS started operating in September 2012. All AIIMS are public teaching hospitals and are mandated with training in various courses (MBBS, MD/MS, DM/MCH, BSc Honours in Nursing, MSc, MPH, PhD). AIIMS Jodhpur is also delivering Joint Program in MedTech in collaboration with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur. Location AIIMS Jodhpur(Rajasthan) is situated at outskirts of city of Industrial Area Basni, Jodhpur. On 31 January 2004, then Finance Minister Jaswant Singh (Jasol) had laid the foundation stone of AIIMS Jodhpur. Sushma Swaraj, then Health Minister, and Rajnath Singh, then Agriculture Minister, were also present on the occasion. Jodhpur is located in the geographical center of Rajasthan and is also the entry point for Thar Desert in Western India. Academics From 2013 onwards AIIMS started admitting 100 MBBS and 60 BSc Nursing(Hons.) students. Outdoor patient(OPD) services began at the AIIMS Jodhpur from 27 July 2013. AIIMS has started MD courses in Anatomy, Biochemistry, Physiology and Community Medicine and Family Medicine departments from 2016. AIIMS Jodhpur started Postgraduate courses in 20 departments from 2017 with 56 seats. Admissions to the post graduate courses is done through a common entrance exam known as Institute of National Importance-Common Entrance Test (INI-CET) along with PGI, Chandigarh, JIPMER Puduchery, NIMHANS Bangalore and SCTIMS, Trivandrum. AIIMS Jodhpur admits 194 PG students every year. The institute also admits students in superspeciality (DM/MCH) program through INI-SS Exams conducted by AIIMS Delhi. AIIMS Jodhpur uses innovations in Medical Education and patient care. AIIMS Jodhpur Model of Medical Education utilizes Unconventional Learning Experiences (UNCLE) for delivering Competency Based Medical Education in its special sessions on Saturdays. The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind graced and addressed the students during 2nd Convocation of the institute on 7 December 2019 and lauded the efforts of AIIMS Jodhpur in collaborating with IIT Jodhpur for medical innovation course AIIMS Jodhpur Model of Medical Education AIIMS Jodhpur has established a unique model for medical education. The model introduced since beginning of the Institute in 2012, centered around involving both faculty facilitators as well as students. One day in a week (Saturdays) is devoted for implementing innovative ideas or pedagogical methods with students as primary stakeholders. Department are joined by mutidisciplines for theme based integrated teaching sessions. This makes the learning of a subject engaging and contextual to patient care right from beginning. The model also incorporates sessions with UNCoventional Learning Experiences (UNCLE) where innovative methods like Flipped Classroom, teaching professionalism, using Clickers (Audience Response System) for involving even the quiet students, using 'Reverse Telelmedicine' for taking patients from hospital or ICUs to classroom or hostel. National Ranking 1. National Institutional Ranking Framework NIRF_M_2023 = 13 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur (IR-D-U-0689) ranked 16th and 13th in National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) of Ministry of Education for Medical category in years 2022 and 2023 respectively. Thus, it is the 2nd best AIIMS, after AIIMS, new Delhi. 2. India Today Ranking, 2021 AIIMS Jodhpur ranked 23 by the India Today magazine for year 2021. Research and Publication Institute mandate is to build evidences through clinical, laboratory, community and translational research. Medical students are encouraged to get involved in research under guidance of faculty members. Faculty engagement in research is visible through Scopus. The Scopus affiliation ID for AIIMS Jodhpur: 60108918 AIIMS Hospital Overview AIIMS Jodhpur hospital has five floor Out-patient department (OPD) Block housing all broad and super-speciality except Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation (PMR) department which is housed separately on ground-floor accessible to all patients with disability. OPD is disabled friendly with 6 elevators (Lifts) and ramp. Emergency & Trauma block is accessible through Gate 3 with ambulance bay. The block has ground, first and second floors while emergency triage is located at ground-floor. Emergency OT's are located at ground-floor and 2nd floor. Trauma Intensive Care is located on 2nd floor. The emergency block also houses a Dialysis Unit on the first floor with 11 machines. The diagnostic block is located backside of the Emergency block on ground and 1st floor. Advanced equipments are available in Radiology department which includes two CT scanners, two MR scanners (3T), Digital Subtraction Angiography (DSA) suite for all interventional procedures along with fluoroscopy, Mammography, sonography and digital X-rays. The Nuclear Medicine department is having a PET-CT scan. Pathology department is having facilities for Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and Molecular pathology supported by Department of Health Research -DHR-ICMR Advance Medical Oncology Diagnostic Services (DIAMONDS) The institute has 30 modular Operation Theaters, 30 bedded Intensive Care Unit (ICU), 16 bedded Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) and 18 bedded Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). Robotic surgeries are being carried out for difficult to reach areas like Urology, gynecology, Pediatric and cancer surgeries. More than 500 robotic surgeries have been performed by December 2021. Overall, the institute is able to provide high class care for difficult, high risk and cases with dilemma. Centers of Excellence 1. Center of Excellence for Tribal Health, AIIMS Jodhpur Ministry of Tribal Affairs (MoTA) Government of India has chosen AIIMS Jodhpur as one of their Center of Excellence (CoE) for Tribal Health. The objectives were to study the practices of Tribal healers, piloting of Telemedicine and understanding common diseases for which awareness can be created. 2. Center of Excellence in Oncology under India-Sweden Innovation Center As part of India-Sweden Innovation center, a tripartite agreement between AIIMS Jodhpur, AIIMS Delhi and Business Sweden, a Live CoE, the first project on Comprehensive Cancer Patient Support Service was established in AIIMS Jodhpur campus to deliver treatment to cancer patients The center was launched along with felicitation of 10 start-ups selected for the 2nd edition of India-Sweden innovation challenge at Dubai Expo 2020 on 31 January 2022. Projects GenomeIndia: Cataloguing the Genetic Variation in Indians AIIMS Jodhpur is part of a project under Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India in a flagship project, a pan-India initiative focused on Whole Genome Sequencing of representative populations across India. The goal of the initiative is to carry out whole genome sequencing and subsequent data analysis of 10,000 individuals representing the country's diverse population. Institute is assigned to engage various community through its Community Engagement and Involvement initiative, obtain consent, create awareness, obtain clinical and biochemical phenotype and request their samples for high level whole exome sequencing and biobanking. Student activities Talents of the students is not only seen in academics but also in extracurricular activities. The following activities are carried out regularly by the students: CRANIUM is a homegrown rock band established in 2016 at AIIMS Jodhpur by Dhanesh, Kavin, Gurarsh, and Paras. Today, under the leadership of Sparsh Daisy and Vatsal Garg, the band comprises Sparsh Daisy on drums, sound, and occasional vocals, Vatsal Garg on rhythm guitar, Urvish Agrawal, Utkarsh Zavar, and Sujoy on lead guitars, Dhruv Rohela on keyboards and Harleen Kaur , Yadujeet on Vocals. CRANIUM's music combines various rock sub genres .With electrifying performances, they have gained popularity, winning competitions and continue to strive creating it as one of the most prestigious club to be part of at AIIMS Jodhpur. ABHIVYAKTI: The AIIMSJ LITERARY CLUB - It was started in year 2015 by students of AIIMS Jodhpur including Ajey Singh Rathore, Deeksha Patkar, Vaishali Ranganathan, Ishant Kumar Sahu, Monish Gupta, Harkirat Singh, Udita Patni, Akanksha Saini and many others. The club is involved in enhancing the interest of students in literary activities and to connect them with the Literature, despite busy schedules. The club organises literary activities throughout the year and holds regular club meetings. It also organises an open mic event, Alfaaz and Manthan, on the day of Hindi Diwas. The club also publishes annual college magazine, Rohida, as the representation in the Editorial Board. The junior members of club makes the annual yearbook for the passing out batch of MBBS from AIIMS Jodhpur every year. AURA The Best Medfest of India organized by medical students at AIIMS Jodhpur. The multi-cultural activity with participants from academic institutions across the country show their talents in sports, arts, literary and informal events.Usually is conducted in March every year. TEJAS The Intracollege Sports Event , Where in the teams of different batches compete against each other in variety of sports events ranging from Cricket, Volleyball, Basketball, Athletics, Handball, Tennis, Badminton, Table Tennis , Chess and other events. From 2020, there are 125 seats for MBBS in AIIMS Jodhpur. Annual Reports of the Institute Annual Report 2016-17 The annual report highlighted work done by the faculty, residents, students and staff of the institute during 2016–17. Notable among them was that the institute was awarded the Certificate of Commendation and a sum of Rupees Fifty Lacs by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India (GoI) under its Kayakalp Program. The program recognize the efforts made towards cleanliness and hygiene and creating awareness to encourage the same among public for better health. The institute also continued with its paperless system, aligned with the Government Digital India initiative. Annual Report 2015-16 The year witnessed progress in multiple fronts. The notable event was visiting by Hon'ble Health Minister Shri J P Nadda on 6 June 2015. The Health Minister, who was also President of the Institute Body, inaugurated Laboratory Complex, Blood Bank, Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Block and Computerized Patient Management System. He also visited other facilities. Annual Report 2014-15 The OPD and IPD services at AIIMs, Jodhpur grew during the year 2014–15. The Institute began its OT complex where all types of surgeries have been performed. More than 86,000 patients visited the OPD and nearly 2500 patients were admitted in the IPD during the year. See also All India Institute of Medical Sciences Education in India List of medical colleges in India The USSR Academy of Medical Sciences (Russian: Акаде́мия медици́нских нау́к СССР) was the highest scientific and medical organization founded in the Soviet Union founded in 1944. Its successor is the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences founded in 1992, and is a part of the Russian Academy of Sciences since 2013. Presidents of the USSR Academy of Medical Sciences and the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences from 1944 to 1946 – Nikolay Burdenko from 1946 to 1953 – Nikolay Anichkov from 1953 to 1960 – Aleksandr Bakulev from 1960 to 1968 and from 1977 to 1987 – Nikolay Blokhin from 1968 to 1977 – Vladimir Timakov from 1987 to 2006 – Valentin Pokrovsky from 2006 to 2011 – Mikhail Davydov from 2011 to 2013 – ru:Дедов, Иван Иванович Past and current members Alexander Gavrilenko (2004) Anatoly Pokrovsky Andrei Snezhnevsky Fellowship of the Academy of Medical Sciences (FMedSci) is an award for medical scientists who are judged by the UK Academy of Medical Sciences for the excellence of their science, their contribution to medicine and society and the range of their achievements. Fellowship Fellows are entitled to use the post-nominal letters FMedSci; see Category:Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences (United Kingdom) for examples of fellows. Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), formerly Sree Chitra Tirunal Medical Center, is an autonomous medical school and an Institute of National Importance in India established in 1976 at Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala. The institute is named after Chithira Tirunal Balarama Varma, the last Maharajah of Travancore, who gifted the building. The institute is under the Administrative Control of the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. SCTIMST is one of the most prominent research Institutes and centers in India. History In 1973 Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma, the last Maharajah of Travancore, gifted a multi-storied building to the Government of Kerala. In 1976 P. N. Haksar, the deputy chairman of the Planning Commission, inaugurated the Sree Chitra Tirunal Medical Center. This was followed by a biomedical technology wing, established at the Satelmond Palace, Poojapura, nearly 11 km (6.8 mi) away, a grab from Sethu Lakshmi Bayi, the aunt of Balarama Varma. The institute was declared an Institute of National Importance by an Act of Parliament in 1980, and renamed to its current name. The third wing of the institute, Achutha Menon Center for Health Science Studies (AMCHSS), was established in 2000. The institute is currently headed by Dr Sanjay Behari, prominent neurosurgeon. Former directors of the institute were M. S. Valiathan (1979-1994), K. Mohandas (1994-2009) and K. Radhakrishnan (2009-2013), Dr Asha Kishore. Sree Chithira Thirunal Balaramavarma died in the same hospital. The official emblem of the institute honours the symbol of the royal family of Travancore, the Shankh of Sree Padmanabhaswamy. Divisions Tertiary Care Hospital (about 250 beds) headed by Dr. Rupa Sreedhar Biomedical Technology Wing (with state of technology development facilities) headed by Dr. Harikrishna Varma P. R. Center for Health Sciences & Public Health — Achutha Menon Center for Health Science Studies headed by Dr Biju Soman Achutha Menon Centre for Health Science Studies Named after former chief minister of Kerala C. Achutha Menon, AMCHSS was developed in 1990s with the aim to conduct researches and to educate researchers to reduce health inequity. AMCHSS is the academic division of the institute and conducts research for various disciplines related to health. The center offers MPH, DPH, and PhD courses in health sciences. Biomedical Technology Wing The Biomedical Technology Wing has played a pioneering role in the establishment of a medical device industry base in India by successfully developing and transferring technologies for diverse medical products such as disposable blood bag system, mechanical heart valve prosthesis, blood oxygenators, ophthalmic sponge, concentric needle electrode, hydroxyapatite based biocermaic porous granules with many more in the pipeline with industrial collaboration. It has also been the only institute in India to have developed an artificial heart valve that is currently manufactured and marketed by TTK. The institute holds international patents for devices and processes and holds the record for maximum number of patents in Kerala. The Biomedical Technology Wing has implemented a quality system to meet the requirements of international standard ISO/IEC 17025. About 20 of these tests are accredited by the Comité français d'accréditation (Cofrac) of France. Hospital Wing The hospital has the following departments: Department of Cardiology Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery Department of Anaesthesiology Cardiothoracic and vascular anaesthesiology Neuroanaesthesiology Department of Imaging Sciences and Interventional Radiology Department of Neurology Department of Neurosurgery Division of Clinical Engineering Division of Microbiology Department of Pathology Division of Biochemistry Department of Transfusion Medicine Division of Cellular and Molecular Cardiology Division of Tissue Engineering Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation department Patient care SCTIMST has a 253-bed hospital for tertiary care of cardiovascular and neurological diseases. It conducts clinics in cardiology, cardiovascular and thoracic, neurology, neurosurgery, radiology, physical medicine and rehabilitation for the public. The institute has pioneered some advanced neurological therapies in India, like Epilepsy surgery and Deep Brain Stimulation. In the past 15 years, the institute has done nearly 1,220 epilepsy surgeries – the highest number by any hospital in Asia. Academic offerings The institute has the status of a university and offers postdoctoral, doctoral and postgraduate courses in medical specialties, public health, nursing, physiotherapy, basic sciences and health care technology. It is a member of the Association of Indian Universities and the Association of Commonwealth Universities. Notable faculty B. K. Misra - Neurosurgeon, recipient of Dr. B. C. Roy Award, the highest medical honour in India. C. Kesavadas, radiologist, 2009 N-BIOS Prize awardee Kurupath Radhakrishnan V. Ramankutty Lizymol Philipose Pamadykandathil - researcher awarded the highest award for women - Nari Shakti Puraskar in 2017 Dr Jeemon Panniyammakal was awarded the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology in Medical Sciences in the year 2021 for his contributions to public health. References External links Official website All India Institute of Medical Sciences Raipur (AIIMS Raipur) is a medical college and medical research public university located in Raipur, Chhattisgarh, India. It is one of the six AIIMS healthcare established in 2012, and it operates autonomously under the Ministry of Health and family welfare (India), Government of India under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojna (PMSSY). History It was established in 2012. The total campus accounts for an area of about 100 acres on the outskirts of the city. Being geographically located in the centre of India, it lodges students from all over the country, particularly states like Kerala, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, etc. All-India Institute of Medical Sciences Amendment Act, 2012 replaced the Ordinance which allowed the six AIIMS—like institutes to become operational from September 2012. The All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (Amendment) Bill, 2012, was introduced in the Lok Sabha on 27 August 2012. Lok Sabha passed the AIIMS (Amendment) Bill, 2012 on 30 August 2012. Bill was then introduced in Rajya Sabha on 3 September 2012. Rajya Sabha passed the Bill on 4 September 2012. Bill got its assent from the President of India, Pranab Mukherjee on 12 September 2012 and the Act came into force. The proposed measure will help the Centre change the status of the six new AIIMS registered under the Indian Societies Registration Act to be autonomous body corporate on the lines of the existing AIIMS in Delhi. Campus AIIMS Raipur is located on GE Road, near the Tatibandh Gurudwara in Raipur. Built at a cost of ₹840 crore (US$110 million), AIIMS Raipur is spread over an area of 103.63 acres (0.4 km2), where the hospital and college complex occupies 63.85 acres (0.3 km2) while residential complex is on 39.78 acres (0.2 km2).Being located in an easily accessible location in the major city of Raipur, the institute answers to the medical needs of a majority of the population of Central India including Chhattisgarh, parts of eastern Maharashtra (Vidarbha Region), Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. The college is 26 kilometers from Swami Vivekananda Airport and 10.6 kilometers from Raipur Junction railway station. Its campus houses several hospitals and institutions in addition to Medical College Hospital (MCH), including the College of Nursing, Dental College, State Virology Lab, etc. Achievements Academics Admission Admissions to the college for MBBS course are carried out through NEET-UG. 125 students are admitted to the course each year. Currently, departments for all postgraduate subjects are functional, and many super speciality departments have also begun training. The institute also offers undergraduate courses for Nursing and Paramedical. The institute admitted its first batch of 50 MBBS students in September 2012. Since 2013, it admits 100 MBBS students per year. Currently, from 2020 onwards, it admits 125 MBBS students per year. Academic programmes The institute provides the courses on : Undergraduate Education Postgraduate Education Doctoral Courses Nursing Education Dental Education Glimpses of AIIMS Raipur See also All India Institute of Medical Sciences All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhopal All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Rishikesh All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Kalyani Education in India List of medical colleges in India References External links Official website All India Institute of Medical Sciences Patna (AIIMS Patna), previously Jaya Prakash Narayan All India Institute of Medical Sciences (JPNAIIMS), is a medical college and medical research public institute located in Phulwari Sharif, Patna, Bihar, India. It is one of the Institutes of National Importance in India. It started operating on 25 September 2012 after a series of observations by the Patna High Court. The institute operates autonomously under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Its foundation was laid by Bhairon Singh Shekhawat on 3 January 2004, during his tenure as vice-president. As of 2018, it became fully functional. History In 2004, the central government decided to set up new AIIMS at Rishikesh, Bhopal, Patna, Jodhpur, Bhubaneswar and Raipur. Though the foundation stone for the ₹ 350-crore project (2004 estimate) was laid in 2004 during Atal Bihari Vajpayee's tenure, the project was delayed owing to the power shift at the centre, and its cost escalated from ₹3.35 billion (US$42 million) to ₹8.5 billion (US$110 million). As of 2015, AIIMS Patna had been under construction for more than eight years.The official state of AIIMS Patna was set through an ordinance, which allowed six AIIMS—like institutes to become operational from September 2012. This was replaced by the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (Amendment) Bill, 2012, which was passed in the Lok Sabha in August of that year and in the Rajya Sabha in September.AIIMS-P doubled the intake of students into its MBBS course to 100 in 2013 from 50 in 2012. In May 2018, a blood bank and eight new departments were inaugurated. In August 2018, an emergency and trauma centre, eight modular operation theatres and an additional 250 beds at the inpatient department (IPD) were inaugurated. Location AIIMS Patna is located in Patna (on NH-139), near Walmi institute at Phulwari Sharif. It is spread over 134 acres, comprising the main medical college campus on 100 acres and residential campus on 34 acres. Hospital AIIMS Patna hospital comprises OPD block, IPD block, Trauma and Emergency block and a separate AYUSH and PMR building having state of art infrastructure. As of 2023, AIIMS Patna has 1331 beds, 28 functional modular operating theatres, 12 functional super speciality and 18 functional speciality. AIIMS Patna has a 30,000-kilo litre capacity oxygen tank installed at its premises. Academics AIIMS Patna started its operations on 25 September 2012. AIIMS New Delhi, has been mentoring the two new AIIMS in Patna and Bhubaneswar, PGI Chandigarh has been mentoring AIIMS coming up in Rishikesh and Jodhpur, while JIPMER Puducherry has been overseeing the AIIMS in Bhopal and Raipur.Medical college comprises various pre-clinical, para-clinical and clinical department. Each department has their own seminar rooms and well equipped labs. There are four lecture theatres in the college building, all of them are equipped with centralised air conditioning, projectors and many other facilities. It also comprises e-class rooms for conduct of various seminars. Class of 2012 batch started in AIIMS Patna on 25 September 2012 with 50 medical students being admitted in AIIMS Patna. To start with, AIIMS Patna imparted training in four subjects to the 1st MBBS students– anatomy, physiology, biochemistry and community medicine.17 super speciality areas including cardiology, cardiothoracic vascular surgery, neurology, neurosurgery, psychiatry, gastroenterology, nephrology (with dialysis), endocrinology and nuclear medicine have already been set up under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana in AIIMS Patna. Hostels AIIMS is a residential university. AIIMS Patna has hostels for all the undergraduates, postgraduates students but not for senior residents. Patna High Court's directives on AIIMS Patna In April 2012, the Patna High Court constituted a three-member core committee comprising representatives from the centre, the state and the AIIMS to speed up construction work of the super-specialty hospital. Shashi Bhushan, the financial advisor to AIIMS Patna had said: The medical college is expected to start functioning from July this year for which appointment of professors is on., but now the college will start in September 2012 and hospital by 2013. AIIMS Patna would be governed by the AIIMS Act until the Union government made a separate law for the upcoming hospital. The Patna high court on 18 July issued a directive that the doctors of trauma and emergency wards of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna (AIIMS Patna) join at Guru Gobind Singh Hospital, Patna City, by 25 July 2012.The court also directed the Union government to ensure that doctors of seven super speciality departments of AIIMS Patna are appointed and join their duty by 25 August. These departments include gastroenterology, cardiology, nephrology, pathology and radiology. Patna high court on 1 August 2012 ordered notional deputation of the Patna DM Sanjay Kumar Singh to the upcoming hospital as its deputy director/joint director/director of AIIMS Patna, until the central government sends a deputy director or joint director or director to take this responsibility. The DM will now on oversee the affairs related to the AIIMS Patna and its development as a super speciality hospital. Bihar government had released a cheque for ₹ 53.4 million to the Guru Gobind Singh Hospital at Patna City for development of infrastructure for the emergency ward and trauma centre of AIIMS Patna. The Patna High court directed the DM on 31 August 2012, to hold a meeting with the AIIMS Patna director and superintendent of Guru Gobind Singh Hospital(GGSH), Patna City, to set modalities of super speciality treatment at the hospital. This arrangement will continue until the AIIMS Patna is completed.Patna High Court ordered on 27 September 2012, to start round-the-clock construction of the AIIMS Patna hospital building by deploying more workers and other resources to ensure its early completion. Patna High Court on 29 January 2013 directed the Bihar government to constitute a team of auditors to audit the utilization of Rs 1.50 billion by M/s B L Kashyap and Company for the construction of the hospital building of AIIMS Patna. See also All India Institute of Medical Sciences AIIMS Darbhanga List of medical colleges in India References External links Official website Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), centered in Bengaluru, India, is a public, affiliating university set up in 1996 by the government of Karnataka, India, for the regulation and promotion of higher education in health sciences throughout the state of Karnataka. RGUHS is a member of Association of Commonwealth Universities, UK.It is the largest health sciences university in India. Notable Alumni Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy M. K. Muneer Edmond Fernandes C. N. Manjunath H. C. Mahadevappa Controversy Irregularities in admissions and affiliations in paramedical and nursing courses at Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) was cited which led to a nursing scam being exposed.The Bommai government wanted to rename the university to Kengal Hanumanthiah, which was met with resistance and eventually the prospect was scrapped. See also Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University Baba Farid University of Health Sciences Dr. YSR University of Health Sciences Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Uttarakhand Medical Education University Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences Kerala University of Health Sciences Madhya Pradesh Medical Science University Maharashtra University of Health Sciences Odisha University of Health Sciences Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences Rajasthan University of Health Sciences Srimanta Sankaradeva University of Health Sciences Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University West Bengal University of Health Sciences References External links Official website A medical degree is a professional degree admitted to those who have passed coursework in the fields of medicine and/or surgery from an accredited medical school. Obtaining a degree in medicine allows for the recipient to continue on into specialty training with the end goal of securing a license to practice within their respective jurisdiction. Medical graduates may also pursue non-clinical careers including those in basic research and positions within the healthcare industry. A worldwide study conducted in 2011 indicated on average: 64 university exams, 130 series exams, and 174 assignments are completed over the course of 5.5 years. As a baseline, students need greater than an 85% in prerequisite courses to enrol for the aptitude test in these degree programs. Undergraduate medical degrees Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS, BMBS, MBChB, MBBCh) Bachelor of Medicine (B.Med, MB, BM) Bachelor of Surgery (B.S)/(B.Surg)The MBBS is also awarded at the graduate level, meaning the applicant already has an undergraduate degree prior to commencing their medical studies (graduate entry). Graduate medical degrees Doctor of Medicine (MD, Dr.MuD, Dr.Med) Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO) Comparison of allopathic and osteopathic medical degrees Some countries, especially Eastern European and former Soviet republics (Russia, Ukraine, Armenia) offer post-secondary, undergraduate, 6-year medical programs, which confer the title Doctor of Medicine as their medical qualification. Post-graduate medical degrees Master of Clinical Medicine (MCM) Master of Medical Science (MMSc, MMedSc) Master of Public Health (MPH) Master of Medicine (MM, MMed) Master of Philosophy (MPhil) Master of Philosophy in Ophthalmology (MPhO) Master of Public Health and Ophthalmology (MPHO) Master of Surgery (MS, MSurg, MChir, MCh, ChM, CM) Master of Science in Medicine or Surgery (MSc) Doctor of Medicine of by research MD(Res), DM Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO) Doctor of Clinical Medicine (DCM) Doctor of Clinical Surgery (DClinSurg) Doctor of Medical Science (DMSc, DMedSc) Doctor of Surgery (DS, DSurg) Doctor of Podiatric Medicine (DPM) Alternative medical degrees Ayurveda - BSc, MSc, BAMC, MD (Ayurveda), M.S. (Ayurveda), Ph.D. (Ayurveda) Siddha medicine - BSMS, MD(Siddha), Ph.D(Siddha) Acupuncture - BSc, LAc, DAc, AP, DiplAc, MAc Chiropractic - Herbalism Acs, BSc, Msc. Homeopathy - BSc, MSc, DHMs, BHMS, M.D. (HOM), PhD in homoeopathy Naprapathy - DN Naturopathic medicine - BSc, MSc, BNYS, MD (Naturopathy), ND, NMD Oriental Medicine - BSc, MSOM, MSTOM, KMD (Korea), BCM (Hong Kong), MCM (Hong Kong), BChinMed (Hong Kong), MChinMed (Hong Kong), MD (Taiwan), MB (China), TCM-Traditional Chinese medicine master (China) Osteopathy - BOst, BOstMed, BSc (Osteo), DipOsteo See also Medical education Medical school Medicine Physician Surgeon Alternative medicine degrees India's medical schools are usually called medical colleges. Medical school quality is controlled by the central regulatory authority, the National Medical Commission, which inspects the institutes from time to time and recognizes institutes for specific courses. Most of the medical schools were set up by the central and state governments in the 1950s and 60s. But in the 1980s, several private medical institutes were founded in several states, particularly in Karnataka. Andhra Pradesh state allowed the founding of several private institutions in the new millennium. Medical education in a private institute can be expensive if not subsidized by the government. The basic medical qualification obtained in Indian medical schools is MBBS. The MBBS course is four-and-a-half years, followed by one year of Compulsory Rotating Residential Internship (CRRI). The MBBS course is followed by MS, a post-graduation course in surgical specialties, or MD, a post-graduation course in medical specialities or DNB in any medical or surgical specialities, which are usually of three years duration, or diploma postgraduate courses of two years duration. Super or sub-specialties can be pursued and only a MS or MD holder is eligible. A qualification in a super- or sub-specialty is called DM or MCh. As of 2021, entry to medical education is based on the rank obtained in NEET (UG). Some institutes like the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences, Christian Medical College, Kasturba Medical College, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Armed Forces Medical College, St. John's Medical College and National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences used to conduct separate entrance tests at the national level before NEET. Indian states with the most medical colleges include Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh. States with the fewest include Manipur, Tripura, Chandigarh, Goa, and Sikkim. As of 21 May 2020, there are 543 medical colleges and 64 stand alone PG Institutes in India whose qualifications are recognized by the National Medical Commission. Following is a complete list of medical colleges in India. Andaman and Nicobar Islands Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Assam Bihar Chandigarh Chhattisgarh Delhi Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu & Kashmir Jharkhand Karnataka A J Institute of Medical Science, Mangalore Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, Bangalore Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences, Bidar ESIC Medical College, Bangalore (GoI) ESIC Medical College, Gulbarga (GoI) Father Muller Medical College, Mangalore Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences, Gulbarga Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Belgaum JSS medical college, Mysore Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubli Kasturba Medical College, Mangalore Kasturba Medical College, Manipal Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences, Bangalore Khaja Banda Nawaz Institute of Medical Sciences, Gulbarga Koppal Institute of Medical Sciences, Koppal KS Hegde Medical Academy Mangalore Mysore Medical College Mahadevappa Rampure Medical College, Gulbarga. Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences, Mandya National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bangalore Navodaya Medical College, Raichur Rajarajeswari Medical College and Hospital, Bangalore S Nijalingappa Medical College, HSK (Hanagal Shree Kumareshwar) Hospital and Research Centre S. S. Institute of Medical Sciences, Davangere Sri Devaraj Urs Medical College, Kolar Shimoga Institute of Medical Sciences, Shimoga St John's Medical College, Bangalore Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Odisha Puducherry Punjab Rajasthan Sikkim Tamil Nadu Chengalpattu Medical College, Chengalpattu Christian Medical College, Vellore Coimbatore Medical College, Coimbatore ESIC Medical College, Chennai (GoI) Government Dharmapuri Medical College, Dharmapuri Government Sivagangai Medical College and Hospital, Sivagangai Government Tiruvannamalai Medical College and Hospital, Tiruvannamalai Government Vellore Medical College, Vellore Government Villupuram Medical College, Villupuram Government Erode Medical College, Perundurai, Erode K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College, Trichy, Tamil Nadu Kanyakumari Government Medical College, Kanyakumari Kilpauk Medical College, Chetput Madras Medical College, Chennai Madurai Medical College, Madurai Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College, Salem, Tamil Nadu Rajah Muthiah Medical College, Chidambaram Sri Ramachandra Medical College and Research Institute, Chennai Stanley Medical College, Royapuram, Chennai Thanjavur Medical College, Thanjavur Thoothukudi Medical College, Thoothukudi Tirunelveli Medical College, Tirunelveli SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre, Chennai PSG Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Coimbatore Velammal Medical College Hospital and Research Institute, Madurai Telangana Tripura Uttarakhand Uttar Pradesh West Bengal See also List of deemed universities List of hospitals in India References External links National Medical Commission - College and Course search tool Our Lady of Fatima University (OLFU) is a private, nonsectarian, coeducational basic and higher education institution. History In 1967, Jose C. Olivares, with his son-in-law, Dr. Vicente M. Santos Sr., founded the Our Lady of Fatima Hospital in Valenzuela City. In 1973 he expanded the hospital to include a nursing college.In 1979 the Fatima College of Medicine was established, with its pioneer batch graduating in 1983. In the 1990s the college diversified, starting programs in computer science, maritime education, education, psychology, biology, tourism and business. The college became a university in December 2002, with Dr. Vicente M. Santos Sr. as its founding president.The next years further saw an increase in infrastructure development. New buildings were established in the Valenzuela and Quezon City campuses, with additional nursing virtual laboratories and simulators. Fatima's College of Nursing was designated by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) as a Center of Development in 2008. Fatima's expansion continued with the establishment of additional campuses in Antipolo, Pampanga, Nueva Ecija, and Sta. Rosa, Laguna.The university submitted itself to the CHED's Institutional Quality Assurance through Monitoring and Evaluation (IQuAME) in 2008. In 2009 it was placed in Category A(t) as a mature teaching university. The CHED granted autonomous status to the university for five years from March 11, 2009, to March 30, 2014. Campuses The university has six campuses which are located in: Valenzuela City, Metro Manila Our Lady of Fatima University – Valenzuela Fatima University Medical Center – Valenzuela College of Medicine Quezon City, Metro Manila Our Lady of Fatima University – QC Antipolo City, Rizal Our Lady of Fatima University – Antipolo Fatima University Medical Center – Antipolo San Fernando City, Pampanga Our Lady of Fatima University – Pampanga Cabanatuan City, Nueva Ecija Our Lady of Fatima University – Nueva Ecija Santa Rosa City, Laguna Our Lady of Fatima University – Laguna Accreditation The Fatima College of Physical Therapy, Fatima College of Pharmacy, Fatima College of Hotel and Restaurant Management, Fatima College of Nursing and Fatima College of Dental Medicine programs are accredited by the Philippine Association of and Universities Commission on Accreditation (PACUCOA). Fatima University Medical Center Near the college of medicine is the Fatima University Medical Center, a 150-bed hospital on the university campus. The center is an institutional partner that serves as a teaching tertiary hospital. Athletics The 'Fatima Phoenix' commonly called Team Fatima are chosen athletes who compete in basketball, volleyball, badminton, taekwondo, cheerdancing, track and field, chess, billiards, and swimming. Their students represent the university in NAASCU, PRISAA and other competitions. References External links Official website All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur (AIIMS Nagpur) is a medical research public higher education institute located at the Multi-modal International Cargo Hub and Airport at Nagpur (MIHAN), Nagpur, Maharashtra, India. It is one of the four Phase-IV All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) announced in July 2014. History In July 2014, in the budget speech for 2014–15, the Minister of Finance Arun Jaitley announced a budget of ₹500 crore (equivalent to ₹799 crore or US$100 million in 2023) for setting up four new AIIMS, in Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra and the Purvanchal region in Uttar Pradesh, the so-called Phase-IV institutes. In October 2015 the AIIMS at Nagpur was approved by the cabinet at a cost of ₹1,577 crore (equivalent to ₹24 billion or US$300 million in 2023). Construction work on the permanent campus started in September 2017. Meanwhile, AIIMS Nagpur has commenced the academic session 2018-19 from temporary campus at Government Medical College and Hospital, Nagpur. See also Education in India List of medical colleges in India References External links Official website A medical school is a tertiary educational institution, professional school, or forms a part of such an institution, that teaches medicine, and awards a professional degree for physicians. Such medical degrees include the Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS, MBChB, MBBCh, BMBS), Master of Medicine (MM, MMed), Doctor of Medicine (MD), or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO). Many medical schools offer additional degrees, such as a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), master's degree (MSc) or other post-secondary education. Medical schools can also carry out medical research and operate teaching hospitals. Around the world, criteria, structure, teaching methodology, and nature of medical programs offered at medical schools vary considerably. Medical schools are often highly competitive, using standardized entrance examinations, as well as grade point averages and leadership roles, to narrow the selection criteria for candidates. In most countries, the study of medicine is completed as an undergraduate degree not requiring prerequisite undergraduate coursework. However, an increasing number of places are emerging for graduate entrants who have completed an undergraduate degree including some required courses. In the United States and Canada, almost all medical degrees are second-entry degrees, and require several years of previous study at the university level. Medical degrees are awarded to medical students after the completion of their degree program, which typically lasts five or more years for the undergraduate model and four years for the graduate model. Many modern medical schools integrate clinical education with basic sciences from the beginning of the curriculum (e.g.). More traditional curricula are usually divided into preclinical and clinical blocks. In preclinical sciences, students study subjects such as biochemistry, genetics, pharmacology, pathology, anatomy, physiology and medical microbiology, among others. Subsequent clinical rotations usually include internal medicine, general surgery, pediatrics, psychiatry, and obstetrics and gynecology, among others. Although medical schools confer upon graduates a medical degree, a physician typically may not legally practice medicine until licensed by the local government authority. Licensing may also require passing a test, undergoing a criminal background check, checking references, paying a fee, and undergoing several years of postgraduate training. Medical schools are regulated by each country and appear in the World Directory of Medical Schools which was formed by the merger of the AVICENNA Directory for Medicine and the FAIMER International Medical Education Directory. Africa By 2005 there were more than 100 medical schools across Africa, most of which had been established after 1970. Ghana There are seven medical schools in Ghana: The University of Ghana Medical School in Accra, the KNUST School of Medical Sciences in Kumasi, University for Development Studies School of Medicine in Tamale, University of Cape Coast Medical School and the University of Allied Health Sciences in Ho, Volta Region, the private Accra College of Medicine, and Family Health University College(Accra), another private medical school.Basic Medical education lasts 6 years in all medical schools. Entry into these medical schools is highly competitive and it is usually based on successful completion of the Senior High School Examinations. The University of Ghana Medical School and the University of Cape Coast have, however, introduced a graduate entry medical program to admit students with mainly science-related degrees into a 4-year medical school program (four and half years for the University of Cape Coast). Students graduating from any of these medical schools get the MBChB degree and the title Dr. For the first 3 years, students are awarded BSc in the field of Medical Sciences from the University of Ghana medical school; and Human biology for KNUST and UDS medical schools. The University of Ghana Medical School and KNUST School of Medical Sciences in Kumasi use a traditional medical education model whiles the University for Development Studies School of Medicine and School of Medical science of the University of Cape Coast use the problem-based learning model. Medical graduates are then registered provisionally with the Medical and Dental Council (MDC) of Ghana as House Officers (Interns). Upon completion of the mandatory 2-year housemanship, these medical doctors are permanently registered with the MDC and can practice as medical officers (General Practitioners) anywhere in the country. The housemanship training is done only in hospitals accredited for such purposes by the Medical and Dental Council of Ghana. Following the permanent registration with the Medical and Dental Council, doctors can specialize in any of the various fields that is organized by either the West African College of Physicians and Surgeons or the Ghana College of Physician and Surgeons. Medical officers are also sometimes hired by the Ghana Health Service to work in the District/Rural areas as Primary Care Physicians. Kenya In Kenya, medical schools are faculties of a university. Medical education lasts for 6 years after which the student graduates with an undergraduate (MBChB) degree. This is followed by a mandatory 12-month full-time internship at an approved hospital after which one applies for registration with the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board if they intend to practice medicine in the country. The first two years of medical school cover the basic medical (preclinical) sciences while the last four years are focused on the clinical sciences and internship. Completion of formal specialty training in Kenya is followed by two years of supervised clinical work before one can apply for recognition as a specialist, in their respective field, by the medical board. There are no medical school entry examinations or interviews and admission is based on the student's performance in the high school exit examination (Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education - KCSE). Students who took the AS Level or the SAT can also apply but there is a very strict quota limiting the number of students that get accepted into public universities. This quota does not apply to private universities. Nigeria There are several medical schools in Nigeria. Entrance into these schools is highly competitive. Candidates graduating from high school must attain high scores on the West African Examination Council's (WAEC) Senior School Certificate Exam (SSCE/GCE) and high scores in five subjects (Physics, Mathematics, English, Chemistry, and Biology) in the University Matriculation Examination (UME). Students undergo rigorous training for 6 years and culminate with a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS/MBChB). The undergraduate program is six years and one year of work experience in government hospitals. After medical school, graduates are mandated to spend one year of housemanship (internship) and one year of community service before they are eligible to be fully licensed by the Medical and Dental Council. Candidates are required to score at least 280 in the UME. Though this score may vary due to different performances per year and it also depends on the college standards. South Africa There are eight medical schools in South Africa, each under the auspices of a public university. As the country is a former British colony, most institutions follow the British-based undergraduate method of instruction, admitting students directly from high school into 6 or 5-year programs. Some universities such as the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg have started offering post-graduate medical degrees that run concurrently with their undergraduate programs. In this instance, a student having completed an appropriate undergraduate degree with basic sciences can enter into a four-year postgraduate program. South African medical schools award the MB ChB degree, except the University of the Witwatersrand, which styles its degree MB BCh. Some universities allow students to earn an intercalated degree, completing a BSc (Medical) with an additional year of study after the second or third year of the MBChB. The University of Cape Town, in particular, has spearheaded a recent effort to increase the level of medical research training and exposure of medical students through an Intercalated Honours Programme, with the option to extend this to a PhD.Following successful completion of study, all South African medical graduates must complete a two-year internship as well as a further year of community service in order to register with the Health Professions Council and practice as a doctor in the country. Specialisation is usually a five- to seven-year training process (depending on the specialty) requiring registering as a medical registrar attached to an academic clinical department in a large teaching hospital with appropriate examinations. The specialist qualification may be conferred as a Fellowship by the independent Colleges of Medicine of South Africa (CMSA), following British tradition, or as a Magisterial degree by the university (usually the M Med, Master of Medicine, degree). The Medical schools and the CMSA also offer Higher Diplomas in many fields. Research degrees are the MMed and PhD or MD, depending on the university. Medical students from all over the world come to South Africa to gain practical experience in the country's many teaching hospitals and rural clinics. The language of instruction is English but a few indigenous languages are studied briefly. The University of the Free State has a parallel medium policy, meaning all English classes are also presented in Afrikaans, therefore students who choose to study in Afrikaans, do so separately from the English class. Sudan In Sudan, a medical school is a faculty of a university. Medical school is usually 5–6 years, and by the end of the 5–6 years, the students acquire a bachelor's degree in Medicine and Surgery. Post graduating there is a mandatory one-year full-time internship at one of the universities or Government Teaching hospitals in the four major Specialty in 3 months rotation, then a license is issued after a written exam conducted by the Sudan medical council (SMC). During the first 3–4 years the curriculum is completed, and throughout the next 2 years it is repeated with clinical training. Students with high grades in high school are accepted for free in Government Universities. Private faculty accept low grades than governmental faculty but their grades still high. Students who take foreign examinations other than the Sudanese High School Examination are also accepted in Universities, students taking IGCSE/SATs and other Arabian countries. All medical students who want to be enrolled in an internship program should undergo registration under the Sudanese Medical Council. Postgraduate training is conducted by Sudan medical specialisation board (SMSB) and the degree obtained is medical doctor (MD). The duration of training varies from 4–6 years depend on the scientific Council of the specific speciality. Tanzania In Tanzania, medical school is a school within a university or can be an independent university dealing with health related courses only affiliated with a large sized hospital. Medical education lasts for 5 years after which the student graduates with an undergraduate (MD) degree. This is followed by a mandatory 12-month full-time internship at an approved hospital after which one applies for registration with the Medical Council of Tanzania (MCT) if they intend to practice medicine in the country. The first two years of medical school cover the Bio medical sciences or simply basic (pre-clinical) sciences while the last three years are focused on the clinical sciences.There are no medical school entry examinations or interviews and admission is based on students' performance in the high school exit examination (Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education Examination - ACSEE). Alternatively are student who took diploma in clinical medicine with an average of G.P.A 3.5 distinction who have very few seats. Uganda As of April 2017, there are nine accredited medical schools in Uganda. Training leading to the award of the degree of Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) lasts five years, if there are no re-takes. After graduating, a year of internship in a hospital designated for that purpose, under the supervision of a specialist in that discipline is required before an unrestricted license to practice medicine and surgery is granted by the Uganda Medical and Dental Practitioners Council (UMDPC). There is Postgraduate training such as the degree of Master of Medicine (MMed) which is a three-year programme, available at Makerere University School of Medicine in several disciplines. Makerere University School of Public Health, offers the degree of Master of Public Health (MPH) following a 22-month period of study, which includes field work. Zimbabwe In Zimbabwe, there are three medical schools is offering Medical degrees. For undergrads, these are University of Zimbabwe - College of Health Sciences {MBChB}, National University of Science and Technology (NUST) Medical school {MBBS} and Midlands State University (MSU) {MBChB}. Only UZ is offering postgrad degrees in the Medical faculty. Training lasts 5+1⁄2 years. The curriculum is as follows: Part 1 (1 year) – Biochemistry, Communication Skills for Academic Purposes, Anatomy, Physiology and Behavioral Sciences. Professional exams are written in the first two and failure to attain a pass in Biochemistry warranties a repeat of first year. Part 2 (1 year) – Communication Skills for Professional Purposes, Anatomy, Physiology, Behavioral Sciences. Professional exams are written at the end of second year and failure to attain a passmark in any of the last three courses on the list warranties a repeat of the year. Communication Skills can be carried to the next year, but the student should pass the course before graduation. Part 3 (1.5 years) – Pathology (Histopathology), Medical Microbiology, Chemical Pathology, Hematology, Forensic Pathology, Immunology and Toxicology. A professional exam is written at the end of the third year and the student has to pass to proceed. There are also surgery and medicine rotations during the year. Also, the students cover most of the basic Pharmacology during the third stage of the degrees. Part 4 (1 year) – Community Medicine, Psychiatry and Clinical Pharmacology Part 5 (1 year) – Medicine, Surgery, Obstetrics and Gynecology, PediatricsInternships are two years in duration, with the first year spent in medicine and surgery and the second year doing pediatrics, anesthesia/psychiatry and obstetrics and gynecology. Thereafter one can apply for MMED at the university which last 4–5 years depending on specialty. Currently no subspecialist education is available. Asia and Oceania Australia Historically, Australian medical schools have followed the British tradition by conferring the degrees of Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) to its graduates whilst reserving the title of Doctor of Medicine (MD) for their research training degree, analogous to the PhD, or for their honorary doctorates. Although the majority of Australian MBBS degrees have been graduate programs since the 1990s, under the previous Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) they remained categorised as Level 7 Bachelor degrees together with other undergraduate programs. The latest version of the AQF includes the new category of Level 9 Master's (Extended) degrees which permits the use of the term 'Doctor' in the styling of the degree title of relevant professional programs. As a result, various Australian medical schools have replaced their MBBS degrees with the MD to resolve the previous anomalous nomenclature. With the introduction of the Master's level MD, universities have also renamed their previous medical research doctorates. The University of Melbourne was the first to introduce the MD in 2011 as a basic medical degree, and has renamed its research degree to Doctor of Medical Science (DMedSc). Bangladesh In Bangladesh, admission to medical colleges is organized by the Governing Body of University of Dhaka. A single admission test is held for government and private colleges. Due to the highly competitive nature of these exams, the total number of applicants across the country is around 78 times the number of students accepted. Admission is based on the entrance examination, as well as students' individual academic records.The entrance examination has a time limit of one hour. 100 marks are allocated based on objective questions, in which the mark allocation is distributed between a variety of subjects. Biology questions carry 30 marks, Chemistry carries 25, Physics carries 20, English carries 15, and general knowledge carries 10. Additionally, students' previous SSC (Secondary School Certificate) scores carry up to 75 and HSC (Higher Secondary School Certificate) scores carry up to 125 marks towards the overall examination result. English students prepare themselves for the admission exam ahead of time. This is because as the GCSE and A-Level exams do not cover parts of the Bangladesh syllabus.The undergraduate program consists of five years study, followed by a one-year internship. The degrees granted are Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS). Further postgraduate qualifications may be obtained in the form of Diplomas or Degrees (MS or MD), MPhil and FCPS (Fellowship of the College of Physicians and Surgeons). The University of Dhaka launched a new BSc in Radiology and Imaging Technology, offering 30 students the opportunity to contribute towards their entrance exam grade. For students who have passed the HSC, this course contributes towards 25% of the mark. The course contributes up to 75% for Diploma-holding students. The duration of the course is four years (plus 12 weeks for project submission). The course covers a variety of topics, including behavioural science, radiological ethics, imaging physics and general procedure. Cambodia After six years of general medical education (a foundation year + 5 years), all students will graduate with Bachelor of Medical Sciences (BMedSc) បរិញ្ញាប័ត្រ វិទ្យាសាស្រ្តវេជ្ជសាស្ត្រ. This degree does not allow graduates to work independently as Physician, but it is possible for those who wish to continue to master's degrees in other fields relating to medical sciences such as Public Health, Epidemiology, Biomedical Science, Nutrition... Medical graduates, who wish to be fully qualified as physicians or specialists must follow the rule as below: General Practitioner's (GP) course is 8 years (BMedSc + 2-year internship). Clinical rotation in the internship is modulated within 4 main disciplines (general medicine, surgery, gynecology, pediatrics). The medical degree awarded is Doctor of Medicine (MD) សញ្ញាប័ត្រ វេជ្ជបណ្ឌិត, equivalent to a master's degree. After graduating with BMedSc; any students, who wishes to enter Residency Training Programs, are required to sit for a rigorous and Entrance Exam. The duration of residency programs lasts from 3 to 4 years after BMedSc (BMedSc + 3–4 years of specialization). Once the graduates, after successful defense of their practicum thesis, are officially awarded the Degree of Specialized Doctor (MD-with specialization) សញ្ញាប័ត្រវេជ្ជបណ្ឌិតឯកទេស Professional Doctorate.All Medical graduates must complete Thesis Defense and pass the National Exit Exam ប្រឡងចេញថ្នាក់ជាតិក្នុងវិស័យសុខាភិបាល to become either GPs or Medical or Surgical Specialists. China Medical education is normally a five-year Bachelor degree, including a one-year internship (or clinical rotation, during which students are actively involved in patient care) before the final degree is awarded. Although some medical schools run three-year programs, hospitals tend to recruit physicians who have graduated from five-year programs. Students who graduate from medical school must work 1–3 years in a university-affiliated hospital, after which the student is eligible to take the National Medical Licensing Examination (NMLE) for physician certification, which is conducted by the National Medical Examination Center (NMEC). Candidates who pass are certified as physicians by the Ministry of Health. Clinical specialization usually involves a two-or three-year Master degree. Acceptance is based on the national entrance examination used for all universities. In all over China, the Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) Degree courses have been always taught in Chinese medium. There are a few colleges that teach in English and accept foreign medical students. Some of those universities have increased their course duration to 6 years. The degree conferred is known as Bachelor of Clinical Medicine (BCM). Hong Kong Hong Kong has two comprehensive medical faculties, the Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, University of Hong Kong and the Faculty of Medicine, Chinese University of Hong Kong, and they are also the sole two institutes offering medical and pharmacy programs. Other healthcare discipline programs (like nursing) are dispersed among some other universities which do not host a medical faculty. Prospective medical students enter either faculty of Medicine available from high schools. The medical program consists of five years for those who take the traditional Hong Kong's Advanced Level Examination (HKALE) for admission, or six years for those who take the new syllabus Hong Kong's Diploma of Secondary School Education Examination (HKDSE). International students who take examinations other the two mentioned will be assessed by the schools to decide if they will take the five-year program or the six-year one. The competition of entering the medical undergraduate programs is intense as the number of intakes each year is very limited: in 2019, the quota is 265 from each school (530 in total), hence candidates need to attain an excellent examination result and good performance in interviews. The schools put a great emphasis on students' languages (both Chinese and English) and communication skills as they need to communicate with other health care professionals and patients or their families in the future. During their studies at the medical schools, students need to accumulate enough clinical practicing hours in addition before their graduation. The education leads to a degree of Bachelor of medicine and Bachelor of surgery (MB, BS by HKU or MB, ChB by CUHK). After a 5- or 6-year degree, one year of internship follows in order to be eligible to practice in Hong Kong. Both HKU and CUHK provide a prestigious Bachelor of Pharmacy course that is popular among local and overseas students. Students of most other health care disciplines have a study duration of 4 years, except nursing programs which require 5 years. India In India, admission to medical colleges is organized by the central government by NTA (National Testing Agency) through tests known as NEET entrance examination. Students who have successfully completed their 10+2 (Physics, Chemistry and Biology Marks are considered and PCB is mandatory) education (higher secondary school) can appear for the tests the same year.The NEET-UG (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test) for filling up of 15% of total MBBS seats in India, conducted by NTA (National Testing Agency) 1 time in a year in the month of May intakes about only 65,000 students out of a total applicants of over 15,00,000. The Supreme Court Of India has mandated the necessity of entrance examination based upon multiple choice questions and negative marking for wrong answers with subsequent merit over 50% for selection into MBBS as well as higher medical education. The entrance exams are highly competitive.The graduate program consists of three professionals consisting of 9 semesters, followed by one-year internship (rotating housemanship). The degree granted is Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) of five years and six months.The graduate degree of MBBS is divided into three professionals, with each professional ending with a professional exam conducted by the university (a single university may have up to dozens of medical colleges offering various graduate/post-graduate/post-doctoral degrees). After clearing this the student moves into the next professional. Each professional exam consists of a theory exam and a practical exam conducted not only by the same college but also external examiners. The exams are tough and many students are unable to clear them, thereby prolonging their degree time. The first professional is for 1 year and includes preclinical subjects, anatomy, physiology and biochemistry. The second professional is for 1 and a half year and has subjects pathology, pharmacology, microbiology (including immunology) and forensic medicine. Clinical exposure starts in the second professional. The third professional is divided into two parts. Part 1 consists of ophthalmology, ENT, and PSM (preventive and social medicine) and part 2 consists of general-medicine (including dermatology, psychiatry as short subjects), general surgery (including radiology, anaesthesiology and orthopaedics as short subjects) and pediatrics and gynaecology and obstetrics. This is followed by one-year of internship (house-surgeonship). After internship, the degree of MBBS is awarded by the respective university. Some states have made rural service compulsory for a certain period of time after MBBS.Selection for higher medical education is through entrance examinations as mandated by the Supreme Court Of India. Further postgraduate qualifications may be obtained as Post-graduate Diploma of two years residency or Doctoral Degree (MS: Master of Surgery, or MD) of three years of residency under the aegis of the Medical Council of India. The MD/MS seats in India are filled up through NEET PG Examination conducted by the National Board of Examinations (NBE) under the supervision of the Directorate General Of Health Services. Theses/Dissertations are mandatory to be submitted and cleared by university along with examinations (written and clinicals) to obtain MD/MS degree. Further sub-speciality post-doctoral qualification (DM - Doctorate of Medicine, or MCh - Magister of Chirurgery) of three years of residency followed by university examinations may also be obtained.PG (post-graduate) qualification is equivalent to MD/MS, consisting of two/three-years residency after MBBS. A PG diploma may also be obtained through the National Board of Examinations (NBE), which also offers three-years residency for sub-specialisation. All degrees by NBE are called DNB (Diplomate of National Board). DNB's are awarded only after clearance of theses/dissertations and examinations. DNBs equivalent to DM/MCh have to clear examinations mandatorily. Indonesia In Indonesia, high school graduates who aspires to enroll in public medical schools must apply to medicine undergraduate program available in certain public universities. United States In 2019, the Association of American Medical Colleges and American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine listed 154 accredited MD-granting and 36 accredited DO-granting medical schools in the United States. There are two doctorate-level degrees conferred onto physicians in training in the United States, Doctor of Medicine (MD) and Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO). Both entitle the awardee to train for and receive medical licensing through an accredited residency training program.Admission to medical school in the United States is based mainly on a GPA, MCAT score, admissions essay, interview, clinical work experience, and volunteering activities, along with research and leadership roles in an applicant's history. While obtaining an undergraduate degree is not an explicit requirement for a few medical schools, virtually all admitted students have earned at least a bachelor's degree. A few medical schools offer pre-admittance to students directly from high school by linking a joint 3-year accelerated undergraduate degree and a standard 4-year medical degree with certain undergraduate universities, sometimes referred to as a 7-year program, where the student receives a bachelor's degree after their first year in medical school. As undergraduates, students must complete a series of prerequisites, consisting of biology, physics, and chemistry (general chemistry and organic chemistry). Many medical schools have additional requirements including calculus, genetics, statistics, biochemistry, English, and/or humanities classes. In addition to meeting the pre-medical requirements, medical school applicants must take and report their scores on the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT), a standardized test that measures a student's knowledge of the sciences and the English language. Some students apply for medical school following their third year of undergraduate education while others pursue advanced degrees or other careers before applying. In the 19th, there were over 400 medical schools in the United States. By 1910, the number was reduced to 148 medical schools and by 1930 the number totaled only 76. Many early medical schools were criticized for not sufficiently preparing their students for medical professions, leading to the creation of the American Medical Association in 1847 for the purpose of self-regulation of the profession. Abraham Flexner (who in 1910 released the Flexner report with the Carnegie Foundation), the Rockefeller Foundation, and the AMA are credited with laying the groundwork for what is now known as the modern medical curriculum.The standard U.S. medical school curriculum is four years long. Traditionally, the first two years are composed mainly of classroom basic science education, while the final two years primarily include rotations in clinical settings where students learn patient care firsthand. Today, clinical education is spread across all four years with the final year containing the most clinical rotation time. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has published mandatory rules, obliging all inpatient and outpatient teaching settings, laying down the guidelines for what medical students in the United States may do, if they have not completed a clerkship or sub-internship. These rules apply when they are in the clinical setting in school, not when they are, for example, helping staff events or in other non-formal educational settings, even if they are helping provide certain clinical services along with nurses and the supervising physicians- for example, certain basic screening procedures. In the formal clinical setting in school, they can only assist with certain patient evaluation and management tasks, after the vital signs, chief complaint and the history of present illness have been discerned, but prior to the physical examination: reviewing the patient's signs and symptoms in each body system, and then reviewing the patient's personal medical, genetic, family, educational/occupational, and psychosocial history. The student's supervising physician (or another physician with supervisory privileges if the original doctor is no longer available, for some reason) must be in the room during the student's work and must conduct this same assessment of the patient before performing the actual physical examination, and after finishing and conferring with the student, will review his or her notes and opinion, editing or correcting them if necessary, and will also have his or her own professional notes; both must then sign and date and ID the student's notes and the medical record. The patient must give consent for their presence and participation in his or her care, even at a teaching facility. Depending on the time they have completed in school, their familiarity with the area of medicine and the procedure, and the presence of their supervisor, and any others needed, in the room or nearby, they may be allowed to conduct certain very minor tests associated with the physical examination, such as simple venipuncture blood draws, and electrocardiograms and electroencephalograms, for learning and experience purposes, especially when there is no intern or resident available. Upon successful completion of medical school, students are granted the title of Doctor of Medicine (MD) or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO). Residency training, which is a supervised training period of three to seven years (usually incorporating the first-year internship) typically completed for specific areas of specialty. Physicians who sub-specialize or who desire more supervised experience may complete a fellowship, which is an additional one to four years of supervised training in their area of expertise. Upon completion of medical school in the United States, students transition into residency programs through the National Resident Match Program. Each year, approximately 20,000 MD seniors and 7,000 DO seniors from American medical schools participate in the residency match. An additional 21,000 independent applicants (all applicant categories excluding U.S. MD and DO seniors: previous graduates of an LCME-accredited medical school, previous graduates of a COCA-accredited medical school, students/graduates of a Canadian medical school students/graduates of a Fifth Pathway program, students/graduates of an international medical school) compete for the approximately 38,000 available residency positions.For the class of 2009, the average debt of a medical student is $157,990 and 25.1% of students had debt in excess of $200,000 (prior to residency). For the past decade the cost of attendance has increased 5–6% each year (roughly 1.6 to 2.1 times inflation).According to the 2022 Medscape Physician Compensation Report, physicians on average earn $339,000 annually. Primary care physicians earn an average of $260,000 annually, with family medicine physicians earning $255,000 and internists averaging $264,000. Specialists earned an average of $368,000, annually, with dermatologists earning $438,000 annually and neurosurgeons having an average of $773,201.Licensing of medical doctors in the United States is coordinated at the state level. Most states require that prospective licensees complete the following requirements: Graduation from an accredited medical school granting the degree of DO or MD American and Canadian schools must be accredited by the American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine or the Liaison Committee on Medical Education. Foreign medical school graduates generally must complete some training within the United States. Satisfactory completion of at least one year of an AOA- or ACGME-approved residency. Passing the United States Medical Licensing Examination or the Comprehensive Osteopathic Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE, COMLEX, or simply the boards). USMLE and COMLEX both consist of four similar parts: USMLE Step 1 or COMLEX-USA Level 1 is taken at the end of the second year of medical school and tests students' mastery of the basic sciences as they apply to clinical medicine. Step 2 Clinical Knowledge or COMLEX-USA Level 2 Cognitive Evaluation (CE) is taken during the fourth year of medical school and tests students' mastery of the management of ill patients. Step 2 CS or COMLEX-USA Level 2 Performance Evaluation (PE) is taken during the fourth year of medical school and tests students' mastery of clinical skills using a series of standardized patient encounters. The USMLE announced on January 26, 2021, that they have decided to discontinue Step 2 CS. USMLE Step 3 or COMLEX-USA Level 3 is taken after the first year of a residency program and tests physicians' ability to independently manage the care of patients. Medical students A person accepted into a medical school and enrolled in an educational program in medicine, with the goal of becoming a medical doctor, is referred to as a medical student. Medical students are generally considered to be at the earliest stage of the medical career pathway. In some locations they are required to be registered with a government body. Medical students typically engage in both basic science and practical clinical coursework during their tenure in medical school. Course structure and length vary greatly among countries (see above). Bullying Medical students, perhaps being vulnerable because of their relatively low status in health care settings, commonly experience verbal abuse, humiliation and harassment (nonsexual or sexual). Physical assault by hooligans on intern medical students and junior doctors are increasing in underprivileged countries due to lack of proper knowledge of common people and political aggressive behavior. Discrimination based on gender and race is less common. Non-intern medical students often face bullying from their seniors and mandatory bullying from professors during viva voce. Burnout and depression A meta-analysis in the American journal JAMA suggested depressive symptoms in 24–29% of all medical students and 25–33% of all resident physicians. Burnout in medical students, in addition, seems to be associated with increased likelihood of subsequent suicidal ideation, although whether the concept of burnout is a valid way to measure the effects of chronic occupational stress exposure in physicians and physician trainees has been questioned.It has been estimated by a US study that approximately 14% of medical students have symptoms of moderate to severe depression, and roughly 5% have suicidal thoughts at some point during training. In recent years, reports of suicide in unmatched residency applicants has drawn attention to medical student and physician suicide. Internationally depression as well as distress in medical school is widely studied and gained more attention over the years. A recent study among German medical students at international universities displayed the significantly higher risk of depression symptoms being 2.4 times higher than the average population. 23.5% of these German medical students showed clinically relevant depressive symptoms. In a South Korean study, 40% of medical students appeared to have depression. Medical students with more severe depression also may be less likely to seek treatment, largely from fear that faculty members would view them as being unable to handle their responsibilities. Students who feel that they lack a social support system are 10 times more likely to be depressed compared with students that consider themselves to have good social support.Approximately 10% experience suicidal ideation during medical school. Among the coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, Nishimura and colleagues reported that the nationwide state of emergency order significantly worsened mental health status of Japanese medical students, and that those who had concerns about a shift toward online education amid the pandemic had significantly higher odds of being depressed.Lemon and Stone hypothesised in what has become termed the 'Lemon Stone Hypothesis', that medical students from lower socioeconomic backgrounds increase in prevalence during times of national economic adversity. Their hypothesis was a formulation of Becker Maimans' health belief model and Adaption theory. This hypothesis has, to some extent, been supported by a series of surveys. See also American Medical College Application Service (AMCAS) Bimaristan Flexner Report Graduate Australian Medical Schools Admissions Test (GAMSAT) [UK, Australia, Ireland] International medical graduate List of medical schools List of university hospitals Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) [United States, Canada] Undergraduate Medicine and Health Sciences Admission Test (UMAT) [Australia] University Clinical Aptitude Test (UCAT) [UK, Australia, New Zealand] References External links American Medical Student Association Association of American Medical Colleges International Federation of Medical Students' Associations (IFMSA) The Medical Schools Council (UK) The history of medicine is both a study of medicine throughout history as well as a multidisciplinary field of study that seeks to explore and understand medical practices, both past and present, throughout human societies.The history of medicine is the study and documentation of the evolution of medical treatments, practices, and knowledge over time. Medical historians often drawn from other humanities fields of study including economics, health sciences, sociology, and politics to better understand the institutions, practices, people, professions, and social systems that have shaped medicine. When a period which predates or lacks written sources regarding medicine, information is instead drawn from archaeological sources. This field tracks the evolution of human societies' approach to health, illness, and injury ranging from prehistory to the modern day, the events that shape these approaches, and their impact on populations. Early medical traditions include those of Babylon, China, Egypt and India. Invention of the microscope was a consequence of improved understanding, during the Renaissance. Prior to the 19th century, humorism (also known as humoralism) was thought to explain the cause of disease but it was gradually replaced by the germ theory of disease, leading to effective treatments and even cures for many infectious diseases. Military doctors advanced the methods of trauma treatment and surgery. Public health measures were developed especially in the 19th century as the rapid growth of cities required systematic sanitary measures. Advanced research centers opened in the early 20th century, often connected with major hospitals. The mid-20th century was characterized by new biological treatments, such as antibiotics. These advancements, along with developments in chemistry, genetics, and radiography led to modern medicine. Medicine was heavily professionalized in the 20th century, and new careers opened to women as nurses (from the 1870s) and as physicians (especially after 1970). Prehistoric medicine Prehistoric medicine is a field of study focused on understanding the use of medicinal plants, healing practices, illnesses, and wellness of humans before written records existed. Although styled prehistoric medicine, prehistoric healthcare practices were vastly different from what we understand medicine to be in the present era and more accurately refers to studies and exploration of early healing practices. This period extends across the first use of stone tools by early humans c. 3.3 million years ago to the beginning of writing systems and subsequent recorded history c. 5000 years ago. As human populations were once scattered across the world, forming isolated communities and cultures that sporadically interacted, a range of archaeological periods have been developed to account for the differing contexts of technology, sociocultural developments, and uptake of writing systems throughout early human societies. Prehistoric medicine is then highly contextual to the location and people in question, creating an ununiform period of study to reflect various degrees of societal development. Without written records, insights into prehistoric medicine comes indirectly from interpreting evidence left behind by prehistoric humans. One branch of this includes the archaeology of medicine; a discipline that utilises a range of archaeological techniques from observing illness in human remains, plant fossils, to excavations to uncover medical practices. There is evidence of healing practices within Neanderthals and other early human species. Prehistoric evidence of human engagement with medicine include the discovery of psychoactive plant sources such as psilocybin mushrooms in c. 6000 BCE Sahara to primitive dental care in c. 10,900 BCE (13,000 BP) Riparo Fredian (present-day Italy) and c. 7000 BCE Mehrgarh (present-day Pakistan).Anthropology is another academic branch that contributes to understanding prehistoric medicine in uncovering the sociocultural relationships, meaning, and interpretation of prehistoric evidence. The overlap of medicine as both a root to healing the body as well as the spiritual throughout prehistoric periods highlights the multiple purposes that healing practices and plants could potentially have. From proto-religions to developed spiritual systems, relationships of humans and supernatural entities, from Gods to shamans, have played an interwoven part in prehistoric medicine. Ancient medicine Ancient history covers time between c. 3000 BCE to c. 500 CE, starting from evidenced development of writing systems to the end of the classical era and beginning of the post-classical period. This periodisation presents history as if it were the same everywhere, however it is important to note that socioculture and technological developments could differ locally from settlement to settlement as well as globally from one society to the next.Ancient medicine covers a similar period of time and presented a range of similar healing theories from across the world connecting nature, religion, and humans within ideas of circulating fluids and energy. Although prominent scholars and texts detailed well-defined medicial insights, their real-world applications were marred by knowledge destruction and loss, poor communication, localised reinterpretations, and subsequent inconsistent applications. Ancient Mesopotamian medicine The Mesopotamian region, covering much of present-day Iraq, Kuwait, Syria, Iran, and Turkey, was dominated by a series of civilisations including Sumer, the earliest known civilisation in the Fertile Crescent region, alongside the Akkadians (including Assyrians and Babylonians). Overlapping ideas of what we now understand as medicine, science, magic, and religion characterised early Mesopotamian healing practices as a hybrid naturalistic and supernatural belief system.The Sumerians, having developed one of the earliest known writing systems in the 3rd millennium BCE, created numerous cuneiform clay tablets regarding their civilisation included detailed accounts of drug prescriptions, operations, to exorcisms. These were administered and carried out by highly defined professionals including bârû (seers), âs[h]ipu (exorcists), and asû (physician-priests). An example of an early, prescription-like medication appeared in Sumerian during the Third Dynasty of Ur (c. 2112 BCE – c. 2004 BCE).Following the conquest of the Sumerian civilisation by the Akkadian Empire and the empire's eventual collapse from a number of social and environmental factors, the Babylonian civilisation began to dominate the region. Examples of Babylonian medicine include the extensive Babylonian medical text, the Diagnostic Handbook, written by the ummânū, or chief scholar, Esagil-kin-apli of Borsippa,: 99 in the middle of the 11th century BCE during the reign of the Babylonian king Adad-apla-iddina (1069–1046 BCE). This medical treatise presented great attention to the practice of diagnosis, prognosis, physical examination, and remedies. The text contains a list of medical symptoms and often detailed empirical observations along with logical rules used in combining observed symptoms on the body of a patient with its diagnosis and prognosis. : 97–98 Here, clearly developed rationales were developed to understand the causes of disease and injury, supported by agreed upon theories at-the-time of elements we might now understand as natural causes, supernatural magic and religious explanations.Most known and recovered artefacts from the ancient Mesopotamian civilisations centre on the neo-Assyrian (c. 900 - 600 BCE) and neo-Babylonian (c. 600 - 500 BCE) periods, as the last empires ruled by native Mesopotamian rulers. These discoveries include a huge array of medical clay tablets from this period, although damage to the clay documents creates large gaps in our understanding of medical practices.Throughout the civilisations of Mesopotamia there is a wide range of medical innovations including evidenced practices of prophylaxis, taking measures to prevent the spread of disease, accounts of stroke, to an awareness of mental illnesses. Ancient Egyptian medicine Ancient Egypt, a civilisation spanning across the river Nile (throughout parts of present-day Egypt, Sudan, and South Sudan), existed from its unification in c. 3150 BCE to its collapse via Persian conquest in 525 BCE and ultimate downfall from the conquest of Alexander the Great in 332 BCE. Throughout unique dynasties, golden eras, and intermediate periods of instability, ancient Egyptians developed a complex, experimental, and communicative medical tradition that has been uncovered through surviving documents, most made of papyrus, such as the Kahun Gynaecological Papyrus, the Edwin Smith Papyrus, the Ebers Papyrus, the London Medical Papyrus, to the Greek Magical Papyri.Herodotus described the Egyptians as the healthiest of all men, next to the Libyans, because of the dry climate and the notable public health system that they possessed. According to him, the practice of medicine is so specialized among them that each physician is a healer of one disease and no more. Although Egyptian medicine, to a considerable extent, dealt with the supernatural, it eventually developed a practical use in the fields of anatomy, public health, and clinical diagnostics. Medical information in the Edwin Smith Papyrus may date to a time as early as 3000 BCE. Imhotep in the 3rd dynasty is sometimes credited with being the founder of ancient Egyptian medicine and with being the original author of the Edwin Smith Papyrus, detailing cures, ailments and anatomical observations. The Edwin Smith Papyrus is regarded as a copy of several earlier works and was written c. 1600 BCE. It is an ancient textbook on surgery almost completely devoid of magical thinking and describes in exquisite detail the examination, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of numerous ailments.The Kahun Gynaecological Papyrus treats women's complaints, including problems with conception. Thirty four cases detailing diagnosis and treatment survive, some of them fragmentarily. Dating to 1800 BCE, it is the oldest surviving medical text of any kind. Medical institutions, referred to as Houses of Life are known to have been established in ancient Egypt as early as 2200 BCE.The Ebers Papyrus is the oldest written text mentioning enemas. Many medications were administered by enemas and one of the many types of medical specialists was an Iri, the Shepherd of the Anus.The earliest known physician is also credited to ancient Egypt: Hesy-Ra, Chief of Dentists and Physicians for King Djoser in the 27th century BCE. Also, the earliest known woman physician, Peseshet, practiced in Ancient Egypt at the time of the 4th dynasty. Her title was Lady Overseer of the Lady Physicians. Ancient Chinese medicine Medical and healing practices in early Chinese dynasties were heavily shaped by the practice of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). Starting around the Zhou Dynasty, parts of this system were being developed and are demonstrated in early writings on herbs in Classic of Changes (Yi Jing) and Classic of Poetry (Shi Jing).China also developed a large body of traditional medicine. Much of the philosophy of traditional Chinese medicine derived from empirical observations of disease and illness by Taoist physicians and reflects the classical Chinese belief that individual human experiences express causative principles effective in the environment at all scales. These causative principles, whether material, essential, or mystical, correlate as the expression of the natural order of the universe. The foundational text of Chinese medicine is the Huangdi neijing, (or Yellow Emperor's Inner Canon), written 5th century to 3rd century BCE. Near the end of the 2nd century CE, during the Han dynasty, Zhang Zhongjing, wrote a Treatise on Cold Damage, which contains the earliest known reference to the Neijing Suwen. The Jin dynasty practitioner and advocate of acupuncture and moxibustion, Huangfu Mi (215–282), also quotes the Yellow Emperor in his Jiayi jing, c. 265. During the Tang dynasty, the Suwen was expanded and revised and is now the best extant representation of the foundational roots of traditional Chinese medicine. Traditional Chinese medicine that is based on the use of herbal medicine, acupuncture, massage and other forms of therapy has been practiced in China for thousands of years. Ancient Indian medicine The Atharvaveda, a sacred text of Hinduism dating from the Early Iron Age, is one of the first Indian texts dealing with medicine. The Atharvaveda also contains prescriptions of herbs for various ailments. The use of herbs to treat ailments would later form a large part of Ayurveda. Ayurveda, meaning the complete knowledge for long life is another medical system of India. Its two most famous texts belong to the schools of Charaka and Sushruta. The earliest foundations of Ayurveda were built on a synthesis of traditional herbal practices together with a massive addition of theoretical conceptualizations, new nosologies and new therapies dating from about 600 BCE onwards, and coming out of the communities of thinkers which included the Buddha and others.According to the compendium of Charaka, the Charakasamhitā, health and disease are not predetermined and life may be prolonged by human effort. The compendium of Suśruta, the Suśrutasamhitā defines the purpose of medicine to cure the diseases of the sick, protect the healthy, and to prolong life. Both these ancient compendia include details of the examination, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of numerous ailments. The Suśrutasamhitā is notable for describing procedures on various forms of surgery, including rhinoplasty, the repair of torn ear lobes, perineal lithotomy, cataract surgery, and several other excisions and other surgical procedures. Most remarkable was Susruta's surgery specially the rhinoplasty for which he is called father of modern plastic surgery. Susruta also described more than 125 surgical instruments in detail. Also remarkable is Sushruta's penchant for scientific classification: His medical treatise consists of 184 chapters, 1,120 conditions are listed, including injuries and illnesses relating to aging and mental illness. The Ayurvedic classics mention eight branches of medicine: kāyācikitsā (internal medicine), śalyacikitsā (surgery including anatomy), śālākyacikitsā (eye, ear, nose, and throat diseases), kaumārabhṛtya (pediatrics with obstetrics and gynaecology), bhūtavidyā (spirit and psychiatric medicine), agada tantra (toxicology with treatments of stings and bites), rasāyana (science of rejuvenation), and vājīkaraṇa (aphrodisiac and fertility). Apart from learning these, the student of Āyurveda was expected to know ten arts that were indispensable in the preparation and application of his medicines: distillation, operative skills, cooking, horticulture, metallurgy, sugar manufacture, pharmacy, analysis and separation of minerals, compounding of metals, and preparation of alkalis. The teaching of various subjects was done during the instruction of relevant clinical subjects. For example, the teaching of anatomy was a part of the teaching of surgery, embryology was a part of training in pediatrics and obstetrics, and the knowledge of physiology and pathology was interwoven in the teaching of all the clinical disciplines. The normal length of the student's training appears to have been seven years. But the physician was to continue to learn. Ancient Greek medicine Humors The theory of humors was derived from ancient medical works, dominated Western medicine until the 19th century, and is credited to Greek philosopher and surgeon Galen of Pergamon (129–c. 216 CE). In Greek medicine, there are thought to be four humors, or bodily fluids that are linked to illness: blood, phlegm, yellow bile, and black bile. Early scientists believed that food is digested into blood, muscle, and bones, while the humors that weren't blood were then formed by indigestible materials that are left over. An excess or shortage of any one of the four humors is theorized to cause an imbalance that results in sickness; the aforementioned statement was hypothesized by sources before Hippocrates. Hippocrates (c. 400 BCE) deduced that the four seasons of the year and four ages of man that affect the body in relation to the humors. The four ages of man are childhood, youth, prime age, and old age. The four humors as associated with the four seasons are black bile – autumn, yellow bile – summer, phlegm – winter and blood – spring.In De temperamentis, Galen linked what he called temperaments, or personality characteristics, to a person's natural mixture of humors. He also said that the best place to check the balance of temperaments was in the palm of the hand. A person that is considered to be phlegmatic is said to be an introvert, even-tempered, calm, and peaceful. This person would have an excess of phlegm, which is described as a viscous substance or mucous. Similarly, a melancholic temperament related to being moody, anxious, depressed, introverted, and pessimistic. A melancholic temperament is caused by an excess of black bile, which is sedimentary and dark in color. Being extroverted, talkative, easygoing, carefree, and sociable coincides with a sanguine temperament, which is linked to too much blood. Finally, a choleric temperament is related to too much yellow bile, which is actually red in color and has the texture of foam; it is associated with being aggressive, excitable, impulsive, and also extroverted. There are numerous ways to treat a disproportion of the humors. For example, if someone was suspected to have too much blood, then the physician would perform bloodletting as a treatment. Likewise, if a person that had too much phlegm would feel better after expectorating, and someone with too much yellow bile would purge. Another factor to be considered in the balance of humors is the quality of air in which one resides, such as the climate and elevation. Also, the standard of food and drink, balance of sleeping and waking, exercise and rest, retention and evacuation are important. Moods such as anger, sadness, joy, and love can affect the balance. During that time, the importance of balance was demonstrated by the fact that women lose blood monthly during menstruation, and have a lesser occurrence of gout, arthritis, and epilepsy then men do. Galen also hypothesized that there are three faculties. The natural faculty affects growth and reproduction and is produced in the liver. Animal or vital faculty controls respiration and emotion, coming from the heart. In the brain, the psychic faculty commands the senses and thought. The structure of bodily functions is related to the humors as well. Greek physicians understood that food was cooked in the stomach; this is where the nutrients are extracted. The best, most potent and pure nutrients from food are reserved for blood, which is produced in the liver and carried through veins to organs. Blood enhanced with pneuma, which means wind or breath, is carried by the arteries. The path that blood take is as follows: venous blood passes through the vena cava and is moved into the right ventricle of the heart; then, the pulmonary artery takes it to the lungs. Later, the pulmonary vein then mixes air from the lungs with blood to form arterial blood, which has different observable characteristics. After leaving the liver, half of the yellow bile that is produced travels to the blood, while the other half travels to the gallbladder. Similarly, half of the black bile produced gets mixed in with blood, and the other half is used by the spleen.People Around 800 BCE Homer in the Iliad gives descriptions of wound treatment by the two sons of Asklepios, the admirable physicians Podaleirius and Machaon and one acting doctor, Patroclus. Because Machaon is wounded and Podaleirius is in combat Eurypylus asks Patroclus to cut out the arrow-head, and wash the dark blood from my thigh with warm water, and sprinkle soothing herbs with power to heal on my wound. Asklepios, like Imhotep, came to be associated as a god of healing over time. Temples dedicated to the healer-god Asclepius, known as Asclepieia (Ancient Greek: Ἀσκληπιεῖα, sing. Ἀσκληπιεῖον, Asclepieion), functioned as centers of medical advice, prognosis, and healing. At these shrines, patients would enter a dream-like state of induced sleep known as enkoimesis (ἐγκοίμησις) not unlike anesthesia, in which they either received guidance from the deity in a dream or were cured by surgery. Asclepeia provided carefully controlled spaces conducive to healing and fulfilled several of the requirements of institutions created for healing. In the Asclepeion of Epidaurus, three large marble boards dated to 350 BCE preserve the names, case histories, complaints, and cures of about 70 patients who came to the temple with a problem and shed it there. Some of the surgical cures listed, such as the opening of an abdominal abscess or the removal of traumatic foreign material, are realistic enough to have taken place, but with the patient in a state of enkoimesis induced with the help of soporific substances such as opium. Alcmaeon of Croton wrote on medicine between 500 and 450 BCE. He argued that channels linked the sensory organs to the brain, and it is possible that he discovered one type of channel, the optic nerves, by dissection.Hippocrates of Kos (c. 460 – c. 370 BCE), considered the father of modern medicine. The Hippocratic Corpus is a collection of around seventy early medical works from ancient Greece strongly associated with Hippocrates and his students. Most famously, the Hippocratics invented the Hippocratic Oath for physicians. Contemporary physicians swear an oath of office which includes aspects found in early editions of the Hippocratic Oath. Hippocrates and his followers were first to describe many diseases and medical conditions. Though humorism (humoralism) as a medical system predates 5th-century Greek medicine, Hippocrates and his students systematized the thinking that illness can be explained by an imbalance of blood, phlegm, black bile, and yellow bile. Hippocrates is given credit for the first description of clubbing of the fingers, an important diagnostic sign in chronic suppurative lung disease, lung cancer and cyanotic heart disease. For this reason, clubbed fingers are sometimes referred to as Hippocratic fingers. Hippocrates was also the first physician to describe the Hippocratic face in Prognosis. Shakespeare famously alludes to this description when writing of Falstaff's death in Act II, Scene iii. of Henry V. Hippocrates began to categorize illnesses as acute, chronic, endemic and epidemic, and use terms such as, exacerbation, relapse, resolution, crisis, paroxysm, peak, and convalescence.The Greek Galen (c. 129–216 CE) was one of the greatest physicians of the ancient world, as his theories dominated all medical studies for nearly 1500 years. His theories and experimentation laid the foundation for modern medicine surrounding the heart and blood. Galen's influence and innovations in medicine can be attributed to the experiments he conducted, which were unlike any other medical experiments of his time. Galen strongly believed that medical dissection was one of the essential procedures in truly understanding medicine. He began to dissect different animals that were anatomically similar to humans, which allowed him to learn more about the internal organs and extrapolate the surgical studies to the human body. In addition, he performed many audacious operations—including brain and eye surgeries—that were not tried again for almost two millennia. Through the dissections and surgical procedures, Galen concluded that blood is able to circulate throughout the human body, and the heart is most similar to the human soul. In Ars medica (Arts of Medicine), he further explains the mental properties in terms of specific mixtures of the bodily organs. While much of his work surrounded the physical anatomy, he also worked heavily in humoral physiology. Galen's medical work was regarded as authoritative until well into the Middle Ages. He left a physiological model of the human body that became the mainstay of the medieval physician's university anatomy curriculum. Although he attempted to extrapolate the animal dissections towards the model of the human body, some of Galen's theories were incorrect. This caused his model to suffer greatly from stasis and intellectual stagnation. Greek and Roman taboos caused dissection of the human body to usually be banned in ancient times, but in the Middle Ages it changed. In 1523 Galen's On the Natural Faculties was published in London. In the 1530s Belgian anatomist and physician Andreas Vesalius launched a project to translate many of Galen's Greek texts into Latin. Vesalius's most famous work, De humani corporis fabrica was greatly influenced by Galenic writing and form. Herophilus and ErasistratusTwo great Alexandrians laid the foundations for the scientific study of anatomy and physiology, Herophilus of Chalcedon and Erasistratus of Ceos. Other Alexandrian surgeons gave us ligature (hemostasis), lithotomy, hernia operations, ophthalmic surgery, plastic surgery, methods of reduction of dislocations and fractures, tracheotomy, and mandrake as an anaesthetic. Some of what we know of them comes from Celsus and Galen of Pergamum.Herophilus of Chalcedon, the renowned Alexandrian physician, was one of the pioneers of human anatomy. Though his knowledge of the anatomical structure of the human body was vast, he specialized in the aspects of neural anatomy. Thus, his experimentation was centered around the anatomical composition of the blood-vascular system and the pulsations that can be analyzed from the system. Furthermore, the surgical experimentation he administered caused him to become very prominent throughout the field of medicine, as he was one of the first physicians to initiate the exploration and dissection of the human body.The banned practice of human dissection was lifted during his time within the scholastic community. This brief moment in the history of Greek medicine allowed him to further study the brain, which he believed was the core of the nervous system. He also distinguished between veins and arteries, noting that the latter pulse and the former do not. Thus, while working at the medical school of Alexandria, Herophilus placed intelligence in the brain based on his surgical exploration of the body, and he connected the nervous system to motion and sensation. In addition, he and his contemporary, Erasistratus of Chios, continued to research the role of veins and nerves. After conducting extensive research, the two Alexandrians mapped out the course of the veins and nerves across the human body. Erasistratus connected the increased complexity of the surface of the human brain compared to other animals to its superior intelligence. He sometimes employed experiments to further his research, at one time repeatedly weighing a caged bird, and noting its weight loss between feeding times. In Erasistratus' physiology, air enters the body, is then drawn by the lungs into the heart, where it is transformed into vital spirit, and is then pumped by the arteries throughout the body. Some of this vital spirit reaches the brain, where it is transformed into animal spirit, which is then distributed by the nerves. Ancient Roman medicine The Romans invented numerous surgical instruments, including the first instruments unique to women, as well as the surgical uses of forceps, scalpels, cautery, cross-bladed scissors, the surgical needle, the sound, and speculas. Romans also performed cataract surgery.The Roman army physician Dioscorides (c. 40–90 CE), was a Greek botanist and pharmacologist. He wrote the encyclopedia De Materia Medica describing over 600 herbal cures, forming an influential pharmacopoeia which was used extensively for the following 1,500 years.Early Christians in the Roman Empire incorporated medicine into their theology, ritual practices, and metaphors. Post-classical medicine Middle East Places Byzantine medicine Byzantine medicine encompasses the common medical practices of the Byzantine Empire from about 400 CE to 1453 CE. Byzantine medicine was notable for building upon the knowledge base developed by its Greco-Roman predecessors. In preserving medical practices from antiquity, Byzantine medicine influenced Islamic medicine as well as fostering the Western rebirth of medicine during the Renaissance. Byzantine physicians often compiled and standardized medical knowledge into textbooks. Their records tended to include both diagnostic explanations and technical drawings. The Medical Compendium in Seven Books, written by the leading physician Paul of Aegina, survived as a particularly thorough source of medical knowledge. This compendium, written in the late seventh century, remained in use as a standard textbook for the following 800 years. Late antiquity ushered in a revolution in medical science, and historical records often mention civilian hospitals (although battlefield medicine and wartime triage were recorded well before Imperial Rome). Constantinople stood out as a center of medicine during the Middle Ages, which was aided by its crossroads location, wealth, and accumulated knowledge. The first ever known example of separating conjoined twins occurred in the Byzantine Empire in the 10th century. The next example of separating conjoined twins would be recorded many centuries later in Germany in 1689.The Byzantine Empire's neighbors, the Persian Sassanid Empire, also made their noteworthy contributions mainly with the establishment of the Academy of Gondeshapur, which was the most important medical center of the ancient world during the 6th and 7th centuries. In addition, Cyril Elgood, British physician and a historian of medicine in Persia, commented that thanks to medical centers like the Academy of Gondeshapur, to a very large extent, the credit for the whole hospital system must be given to Persia. Islamic medicine The Islamic civilization rose to primacy in medical science as its physicians contributed significantly to the field of medicine, including anatomy, ophthalmology, pharmacology, pharmacy, physiology, and surgery. Islamic civilization's contribution to these fields within medicine was a gradual process that took hundreds of years. During the time of the first great Muslim dynasty, the Umayyad Caliphate (661-750 CE), these fields that were in their very early stages of development, and not much progress was made. One reason for the limited advancement in medicine during the Umayyad Caliphate was the Caliphate's focus on expansion after the death of Prophet Muhammad (632 CE). The focus on expansionism redirected resources from other fields, such as medicine. The priority on these factors led a dense amount of the population to believe that God will provide cures for their illnesses and diseases because of the attention on spirituality. There were also many other areas of interest during that time before there was a rising interest in the field of medicine. Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan, the fifth caliph of the Umayyad, developed governmental administration, adopted Arabic as the main language, and focused on many other areas. However, this rising interest in Islamic medicine grew significantly when the Abbasid Caliphate (750-1258 CE) overthrew the Umayyad Caliphate in 750 CE. This change in dynasty from the Umayyad Caliphate to the Abbasid Caliphate served as a turning point towards scientific and medical developments. A big contributor to this is because, under Abbasid rule, there was a great part of the Greek legacy that was transmitted into Arabic which by then, was the main language of Islamic nations. Because of this, many Islamic physicians were heavily influenced by the works of Greek scholars of Alexandria and Egypt and were able to further expand on those texts to produce new medical pieces of knowledge. This period of time is also known as the Islamic Golden Age where there was a period of development for development and flourishments of technology, commerce, and sciences including medicine. Additionally, during this time the creation of the first Islamic Hospital in 805 CE by the Abbasid caliph Harun al-Rashid in Baghdad was recounted as a glorious event of the Golden Age. This hospital in Baghdad contributed immensely to Baghdad's success and also provided educational opportunities for Islamic physicians. During the Islamic Golden Age, there were many famous Islamic physicians that paved the way for medical advancements and understandings. Muhammad ibn Zakariya al-Razi (965-1040 CE), sometimes referred to as the father of modern optics, is the author of the monumental Book of Optics and also was known for his work in differentiating smallpox from measles. However, this would not be possible without the influence from many different areas of the world that influenced the Arabs.The Arabs were influenced by ancient Indian, Persian, Greek, Roman and Byzantine medical practices, and helped them develop further.Galen & Hippocrates were pre-eminent authorities. The translation of 129 of Galen's works into Arabic by the Nestorian Christian Hunayn ibn Ishaq and his assistants, and in particular Galen's insistence on a rational systematic approach to medicine, set the template for Islamic medicine, which rapidly spread throughout the Arab Empire. Its most famous physicians included the Persian polymaths Muhammad ibn Zakarīya al-Rāzi and Avicenna, who wrote more than 40 works on health, medicine, and well-being. Taking leads from Greece and Rome, Islamic scholars kept both the art and science of medicine alive and moving forward. Persian polymath Avicenna has also been called the father of medicine. He wrote The Canon of Medicine which became a standard medical text at many medieval European universities, considered one of the most famous books in the history of medicine. The Canon of Medicine presents an overview of the contemporary medical knowledge of the medieval Islamic world, which had been influenced by earlier traditions including Greco-Roman medicine (particularly Galen), Persian medicine, Chinese medicine and Indian medicine. Persian physician al-Rāzi was one of the first to question the Greek theory of humorism, which nevertheless remained influential in both medieval Western and medieval Islamic medicine. Some volumes of al-Rāzi's work Al-Mansuri, namely On Surgery and A General Book on Therapy, became part of the medical curriculum in European universities. Additionally, he has been described as a doctor's doctor, the father of pediatrics, and a pioneer of ophthalmology. For example, he was the first to recognize the reaction of the eye's pupil to light.In addition to contributions to humanity's understanding of human anatomy, Islamicate scientists and scholars, physicians specifically, played an invaluable role in the development of the modern hospital system, creating the foundations on which more contemporary medical professionals would build models of public health systems in Europe and elsewhere. During the time of the Safavid empire (16th–18th centuries) in Iran and the Mughal empire (16th–19th centuries) in India, Muslim scholars radically transformed the institution of the hospital, creating an environment in which rapidly developing medical knowledge of the time could be passed among students and teachers from a wide range of cultures. There were two main schools of thought with patient care at the time. These included humoral physiology from the Persians and Ayurvedic practice. After these theories were translated from Sanskrit to Persian and vice-versa, hospitals could have a mix of culture and techniques. This allowed for a sense of collaborative medicine. Hospitals became increasingly common during this period as wealthy patrons commonly founded them. Many features that are still in use today, such as an emphasis on hygiene, a staff fully dedicated to the care of patients, and separation of individual patients from each other were developed in Islamicate hospitals long before they came into practice in Europe. At the time, the patient care aspects of hospitals in Europe had not taken effect. European hospitals were places of religion rather than institutions of science. As was the case with much of the scientific work done by Islamicate scholars, many of these novel developments in medical practice were transmitted to European cultures hundreds of years after they had long been used throughout the Islamicate world. Although Islamicate scientists were responsible for discovering much of the knowledge that allows the hospital system to function safely today, European scholars who built on this work still receive the majority of the credit historically.Before the development of scientific medical practices in the Islamicate empires, medical care was mainly performed by religious figures such as priests. Without a profound understanding of how infectious diseases worked and why sickness spread from person to person, these early attempts at caring for the ill and injured often did more harm than good. Contrarily, with the development of new and safer practices by Islamicate scholars and physicians in Arabian hospitals, ideas vital for the effective care of patients were developed, learned, and transmitted widely. Hospitals developed novel concepts and structures which are still in use today: separate wards for male and female patients, pharmacies, medical record-keeping, and personal and institutional sanitation and hygiene. Much of this knowledge was recorded and passed on through Islamicate medical texts, many of which were carried to Europe and translated for the use of European medical workers. The Tasrif, written by surgeon Abu Al-Qasim Al-Zahrawi, was translated into Latin; it became one of the most important medical texts in European universities during the Middle Ages and contained useful information on surgical techniques and spread of bacterial infection.The hospital was a typical institution included in the majority of Muslim cities, and although they were often physically attached to religious institutions, they were not themselves places of religious practice. Rather, they served as facilities in which education and scientific innovation could flourish. If they had places of worship, they were secondary to the medical side of the hospital. Islamicate hospitals, along with observatories used for astronomical science, were some of the most important points of exchange for the spread of scientific knowledge. Undoubtedly, the hospital system developed in the Islamicate world played an invaluable role in the creation and evolution of the hospitals we as a society know and depend on today. Europe After 400 CE, the study and practice of medicine in the Western Roman Empire went into deep decline. Medical services were provided, especially for the poor, in the thousands of monastic hospitals that sprang up across Europe, but the care was rudimentary and mainly palliative. Most of the writings of Galen and Hippocrates were lost to the West, with the summaries and compendia of St. Isidore of Seville being the primary channel for transmitting Greek medical ideas. The Carolingian Renaissance brought increased contact with Byzantium and a greater awareness of ancient medicine, but only with the Renaissance of the 12th century and the new translations coming from Muslim and Jewish sources in Spain, and the fifteenth-century flood of resources after the fall of Constantinople did the West fully recover its acquaintance with classical antiquity. Greek and Roman taboos had meant that dissection was usually banned in ancient times, but in the Middle Ages it changed: medical teachers and students at Bologna began to open human bodies, and Mondino de Luzzi (c. 1275–1326) produced the first known anatomy textbook based on human dissection.Wallis identifies a prestige hierarchy with university educated physicians on top, followed by learned surgeons; craft-trained surgeons; barber surgeons; itinerant specialists such as dentist and oculists; empirics; and midwives. Institutions The first medical schools were opened in the 9th century, most notably the Schola Medica Salernitana at Salerno in southern Italy. The cosmopolitan influences from Greek, Latin, Arabic, and Hebrew sources gave it an international reputation as the Hippocratic City. Students from wealthy families came for three years of preliminary studies and five of medical studies. The medicine, following the laws of Federico II, that he founded in 1224 the university and improved the Schola Salernitana, in the period between 1200 and 1400, it had in Sicily (so-called Sicilian Middle Ages) a particular development so much to create a true school of Jewish medicine.As a result of which, after a legal examination, was conferred to a Jewish Sicilian woman, Virdimura, wife of another physician Pasquale of Catania, the historical record of before woman officially trained to exercise of the medical profession.At the University of Bologna the training of physicians began in 1219. The Italian city attracted students from across Europe. Taddeo Alderotti built a tradition of medical education that established the characteristic features of Italian learned medicine and was copied by medical schools elsewhere.Turisanus (d. 1320) was his student.The University of Padua was founded about 1220 by walkouts from the University of Bologna, and began teaching medicine in 1222. It played a leading role in the identification and treatment of diseases and ailments, specializing in autopsies and the inner workings of the body. Starting in 1595, Padua's famous anatomical theatre drew artists and scientists studying the human body during public dissections. The intensive study of Galen led to critiques of Galen modeled on his own writing, as in the first book of Vesalius's De humani corporis fabrica. Andreas Vesalius held the chair of Surgery and Anatomy (explicator chirurgiae) and in 1543 published his anatomical discoveries in De Humani Corporis Fabrica. He portrayed the human body as an interdependent system of organ groupings. The book triggered great public interest in dissections and caused many other European cities to establish anatomical theatres. By the thirteenth century, the medical school at Montpellier began to eclipse the Salernitan school. In the 12th century, universities were founded in Italy, France, and England, which soon developed schools of medicine. The University of Montpellier in France and Italy's University of Padua and University of Bologna were leading schools. Nearly all the learning was from lectures and readings in Hippocrates, Galen, Avicenna, and Aristotle. In later centuries, the importance of universities founded in the late Middle Ages gradually increased, e.g. Charles University in Prague (established in 1348), Jagiellonian University in Kraków (1364), University of Vienna (1365), Heidelberg University (1386) and University of Greifswald (1456). People Women In 1376, in Sicily, it was historically given, in relationship to the laws of Federico II that they foresaw an examination with a regal errand of physicists, the first qualification to the exercise of the medicine to a woman, Virdimura a Jewish woman of Catania, whose document is preserved in Palermo to the Italian national archives. Early modern medicine Places England In England, there were but three small hospitals after 1550. Pelling and Webster estimate that in London in the 1580 to 1600 period, out of a population of nearly 200,000 people, there were about 500 medical practitioners. Nurses and midwives are not included. There were about 50 physicians, 100 licensed surgeons, 100 apothecaries, and 250 additional unlicensed practitioners. In the last category about 25% were women. All across England—and indeed all of the world—the vast majority of the people in city, town or countryside depended for medical care on local amateurs with no professional training but with a reputation as wise healers who could diagnose problems and advise sick people what to do—and perhaps set broken bones, pull a tooth, give some traditional herbs or brews or perform a little magic to cure what ailed them. People Europe The Renaissance brought an intense focus on scholarship to Christian Europe. A major effort to translate the Arabic and Greek scientific works into Latin emerged. Europeans gradually became experts not only in the ancient writings of the Romans and Greeks, but in the contemporary writings of Islamic scientists. During the later centuries of the Renaissance came an increase in experimental investigation, particularly in the field of dissection and body examination, thus advancing our knowledge of human anatomy. Ideas Animalcules: In 1677 Antonie van Leeuwenhoek identified animalcules, which we now know as microorganisms, within their paper letter on the protozoa. Blood circulation: In 1628 the English physician William Harvey made a ground-breaking discovery when he correctly described the circulation of the blood in his Exercitatio Anatomica de Motu Cordis et Sanguinis in Animalibus. Before this time the most useful manual in medicine used both by students and expert physicians was Dioscorides' De Materia Medica, a pharmacopoeia. Inventions Microscopes: Bacteria and protists were first observed with a microscope by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek in 1676, initiating the scientific field of microbiology. Institutions At the University of Bologna the curriculum was revised and strengthened in 1560–1590. A representative professor was Julius Caesar Aranzi (Arantius) (1530–1589). He became Professor of Anatomy and Surgery at the University of Bologna in 1556, where he established anatomy as a major branch of medicine for the first time. Aranzi combined anatomy with a description of pathological processes, based largely on his own research, Galen, and the work of his contemporary Italians. Aranzi discovered the 'Nodules of Aranzio' in the semilunar valves of the heart and wrote the first description of the superior levator palpebral and the coracobrachialis muscles. His books (in Latin) covered surgical techniques for many conditions, including hydrocephalus, nasal polyp, goitre and tumours to phimosis, ascites, haemorrhoids, anal abscess and fistulae. People Women Catholic women played large roles in health and healing in medieval and early modern Europe. A life as a nun was a prestigious role; wealthy families provided dowries for their daughters, and these funded the convents, while the nuns provided free nursing care for the poor.The Catholic elites provided hospital services because of their theology of salvation that good works were the route to heaven. The Protestant reformers rejected the notion that rich men could gain God's grace through good works—and thereby escape purgatory—by providing cash endowments to charitable institutions. They also rejected the Catholic idea that the poor patients earned grace and salvation through their suffering. Protestants generally closed all the convents and most of the hospitals, sending women home to become housewives, often against their will. On the other hand, local officials recognized the public value of hospitals, and some were continued in Protestant lands, but without monks or nuns and in the control of local governments.In London, the crown allowed two hospitals to continue their charitable work, under nonreligious control of city officials. The convents were all shut down but Harkness finds that women—some of them former nuns—were part of a new system that delivered essential medical services to people outside their family. They were employed by parishes and hospitals, as well as by private families, and provided nursing care as well as some medical, pharmaceutical, and surgical services.Meanwhile, in Catholic lands such as France, rich families continued to fund convents and monasteries, and enrolled their daughters as nuns who provided free health services to the poor. Nursing was a religious role for the nurse, and there was little call for science. Asia China In the 18th century, during the Qing dynasty, there was a proliferation of popular books as well as more advanced encyclopedias on traditional medicine. Jesuit missionaries introduced Western science and medicine to the royal court, although the Chinese physicians ignored them. India Unani medicine, based on Avicenna's Canon of Medicine (ca. 1025), was developed in India throughout the Medieval and Early Modern periods. Its use continued, especially in Muslim communities, during the Indian Sultanate and Mughal periods. Unani medicine is in some respects close to Ayurveda and to Early Modern European medicine. All share a theory of the presence of the elements (in Unani, as in Europe, they are considered to be fire, water, earth, and air) and humors in the human body. According to Unani physicians, these elements are present in different humoral fluids and their balance leads to health and their imbalance leads to illness.Sanskrit medical literature of the Early Modern period included innovative works such as the Compendium of Śārṅgadhara (Skt. Śārṅgadharasaṃhitā, ca. 1350) and especially The Illumination of Bhāva (Bhāvaprakāśa, by Bhāvamiśra, ca. 1550). The latter work also contained an extensive dictionary of materia medica, and became a standard textbook used widely by ayurvedic practitioners in north India up to the present day (2024). Medical innovations of this period included pulse diagnosis, urine diagnosis, the use of mercury and china root to treat syphilis, and the increasing use of metallic ingredients in drugs. By the 18th century CE, Ayurvedic medical therapy was still widely used amongst most of the population. Muslim rulers built large hospitals in 1595 in Hyderabad, and in Delhi in 1719, and numerous commentaries on ancient texts were written. Europe Events European Age of Enlightenment During the Age of Enlightenment, the 18th century, science was held in high esteem and physicians upgraded their social status by becoming more scientific. The health field was crowded with self-trained barber-surgeons, apothecaries, midwives, drug peddlers, and charlatans. Across Europe medical schools relied primarily on lectures and readings. The final year student would have limited clinical experience by trailing the professor through the wards. Laboratory work was uncommon, and dissections were rarely done because of legal restrictions on cadavers. Most schools were small, and only Edinburgh Medical School, Scotland, with 11,000 alumni, produced large numbers of graduates. Places Spain and the Spanish EmpireIn the Spanish Empire, the viceregal capital of Mexico City was a site of medical training for physicians and the creation of hospitals. Epidemic disease had decimated indigenous populations starting with the early sixteenth-century Spanish conquest of the Aztec empire, when a black auxiliary in the armed forces of conqueror Hernán Cortés, with an active case of smallpox, set off a virgin land epidemic among indigenous peoples, Spanish allies and enemies alike. Aztec emperor Cuitlahuac died of smallpox. Disease was a significant factor in the Spanish conquest elsewhere as well. Medical education instituted at the Royal and Pontifical University of Mexico chiefly served the needs of urban elites. Male and female curanderos or lay practitioners, attended to the ills of the popular classes. The Spanish crown began regulating the medical profession just a few years after the conquest, setting up the Royal Tribunal of the Protomedicato, a board for licensing medical personnel in 1527. Licensing became more systematic after 1646 with physicians, druggists, surgeons, and bleeders requiring a license before they could publicly practice. Crown regulation of medical practice became more general in the Spanish empire.Elites and the popular classes alike called on divine intervention in personal and society-wide health crises, such as the epidemic of 1737. The intervention of the Virgin of Guadalupe was depicted in a scene of dead and dying Indians, with elites on their knees praying for her aid. In the late eighteenth century, the crown began implementing secularizing policies on the Iberian peninsula and its overseas empire to control disease more systematically and scientifically.Spanish Quest for Medicinal Spices Botanical medicines also became popular during the 16th, 17th, and 18th Centuries. Spanish pharmaceutical books during this time contain medicinal recipes consisting of spices, herbs, and other botanical products. For example, nutmeg oil was documented for curing stomach ailments and cardamom oil was believed to relieve intestinal ailments. During the rise of the global trade market, spices and herbs, along with many other goods, that were indigenous to different territories began to appear in different locations across the globe. Herbs and spices were especially popular for their utility in cooking and medicines. As a result of this popularity and increased demand for spices, some areas in Asia, like China and Indonesia, became hubs for spice cultivation and trade. The Spanish Empire also wanted to benefit from the international spice trade, so they looked towards their American colonies. The Spanish American colonies became an area where the Spanish searched to discover new spices and indigenous American medicinal recipes. The Florentine Codex, a 16th-century ethnographic research study in Mesoamerica by the Spanish Franciscan friar Bernardino de Sahagún, is a major contribution to the history of Nahua medicine. The Spanish did discover many spices and herbs new to them, some of which were reportedly similar to Asian spices. A Spanish physician by the name of Nicolás Monardes studied many of the American spices coming into Spain. He documented many of the new American spices and their medicinal properties in his survey Historia medicinal de las cosas que se traen de nuestras Indias Occidentales. For example, Monardes describes the Long Pepper (Pimienta luenga), found along the coasts of the countries that are now known Panama and Colombia, as a pepper that was more flavorful, healthy, and spicy in comparison to the Eastern black pepper. The Spanish interest in American spices can first be seen in the commissioning of the Libellus de Medicinalibus Indorum Herbis, which was a Spanish-American codex describing indigenous American spices and herbs and describing the ways that these were used in natural Aztec medicines. The codex was commissioned in the year 1552 by Francisco de Mendoza, the son of Antonio de Mendoza, who was the first Viceroy of New Spain. Francisco de Mendoza was interested in studying the properties of these herbs and spices, so that he would be able to profit from the trade of these herbs and the medicines that could be produced by them. Francisco de Mendoza recruited the help of Monardez in studying the traditional medicines of the indigenous people living in what was then the Spanish colonies. Monardez researched these medicines and performed experiments to discover the possibilities of spice cultivation and medicine creation in the Spanish colonies. The Spanish transplanted some herbs from Asia, but only a few foreign crops were successfully grown in the Spanish Colonies. One notable crop brought from Asia and successfully grown in the Spanish colonies was ginger, as it was considered Hispaniola's number 1 crop at the end of the 16th Century. The Spanish Empire did profit from cultivating herbs and spices, but they also introduced pre-Columbian American medicinal knowledge to Europe. Other Europeans were inspired by the actions of Spain and decided to try to establish a botanical transplant system in colonies that they controlled, however, these subsequent attempts were not successful. United Kingdom and the British EmpireThe London Dispensary opened in 1696, the first clinic in the British Empire to dispense medicines to poor sick people. The innovation was slow to catch on, but new dispensaries were open in the 1770s. In the colonies, small hospitals opened in Philadelphia in 1752, New York in 1771, and Boston (Massachusetts General Hospital) in 1811. Guy's Hospital, the first great British hospital with a modern foundation opened in 1721 in London, with funding from businessman Thomas Guy. It had been preceded by St Bartholomew's Hospital and St Thomas's Hospital, both medieval foundations. In 1821 a bequest of £200,000 by William Hunt in 1829 funded expansion for an additional hundred beds at Guy's. Samuel Sharp (1709–78), a surgeon at Guy's Hospital from 1733 to 1757, was internationally famous; his A Treatise on the Operations of Surgery (1st ed., 1739), was the first British study focused exclusively on operative technique.English physician Thomas Percival (1740–1804) wrote a comprehensive system of medical conduct, Medical Ethics; or, a Code of Institutes and Precepts, Adapted to the Professional Conduct of Physicians and Surgeons (1803) that set the standard for many textbooks. Late modern medicine Germ theory and bacteriology In the 1830s in Italy, Agostino Bassi traced the silkworm disease muscardine to microorganisms. Meanwhile, in Germany, Theodor Schwann led research on alcoholic fermentation by yeast, proposing that living microorganisms were responsible. Leading chemists, such as Justus von Liebig, seeking solely physicochemical explanations, derided this claim and alleged that Schwann was regressing to vitalism. In 1847 in Vienna, Ignaz Semmelweis (1818–1865), dramatically reduced the death rate of new mothers (due to childbed fever) by requiring physicians to clean their hands before attending childbirth, yet his principles were marginalized and attacked by professional peers. At that time most people still believed that infections were caused by foul odors called miasmas. French scientist Louis Pasteur confirmed Schwann's fermentation experiments in 1857 and afterwards supported the hypothesis that yeast were microorganisms. Moreover, he suggested that such a process might also explain contagious disease. In 1860, Pasteur's report on bacterial fermentation of butyric acid motivated fellow Frenchman Casimir Davaine to identify a similar species (which he called bacteridia) as the pathogen of the deadly disease anthrax. Others dismissed bacteridia as a mere byproduct of the disease. British surgeon Joseph Lister, however, took these findings seriously and subsequently introduced antisepsis to wound treatment in 1865. German physician Robert Koch, noting fellow German Ferdinand Cohn's report of a spore stage of a certain bacterial species, traced the life cycle of Davaine's bacteridia, identified spores, inoculated laboratory animals with them, and reproduced anthrax—a breakthrough for experimental pathology and germ theory of disease. Pasteur's group added ecological investigations confirming spores' role in the natural setting, while Koch published a landmark treatise in 1878 on the bacterial pathology of wounds. In 1881, Koch reported discovery of the tubercle bacillus, cementing germ theory and Koch's acclaim. Upon the outbreak of a cholera epidemic in Alexandria, Egypt, two medical missions went to investigate and attend the sick, one was sent out by Pasteur and the other led by Koch. Koch's group returned in 1883, having successfully discovered the cholera pathogen. In Germany, however, Koch's bacteriologists had to vie against Max von Pettenkofer, Germany's leading proponent of miasmatic theory. Pettenkofer conceded bacteria's casual involvement, but maintained that other, environmental factors were required to turn it pathogenic, and opposed water treatment as a misdirected effort amid more important ways to improve public health. The massive cholera epidemic in Hamburg in 1892 devastated Pettenkoffer's position, and yielded German public health to Koch's bacteriology.On losing the 1883 rivalry in Alexandria, Pasteur switched research direction, and introduced his third vaccine—rabies vaccine—the first vaccine for humans since Jenner's for smallpox. From across the globe, donations poured in, funding the founding of Pasteur Institute, the globe's first biomedical institute, which opened in 1888. Along with Koch's bacteriologists, Pasteur's group—which preferred the term microbiology—led medicine into the new era of scientific medicine upon bacteriology and germ theory. Accepted from Jakob Henle, Koch's steps to confirm a species' pathogenicity became famed as Koch's postulates. Although his proposed tuberculosis treatment, tuberculin, seemingly failed, it soon was used to test for infection with the involved species. In 1905, Koch was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, and remains renowned as the founder of medical microbiology. Nursing The breakthrough to professionalization based on knowledge of advanced medicine was led by Florence Nightingale in England. She resolved to provide more advanced training than she saw on the Continent. At Kaiserswerth, where the first German nursing schools were founded in 1836 by Theodor Fliedner, she said, The nursing was nil and the hygiene horrible.) Britain's male doctors preferred the old system, but Nightingale won out and her Nightingale Training School opened in 1860 and became a model. The Nightingale solution depended on the patronage of upper-class women, and they proved eager to serve. Royalty became involved. In 1902 the wife of the British king took control of the nursing unit of the British army, became its president, and renamed it after herself as the Queen Alexandra's Royal Army Nursing Corps; when she died the next queen became president. Today its Colonel In Chief is Sophie, Countess of Wessex, the daughter-in-law of Queen Elizabeth II. In the United States, upper-middle-class women who already supported hospitals promoted nursing. The new profession proved highly attractive to women of all backgrounds, and schools of nursing opened in the late 19th century. They were soon a function of large hospitals, where they provided a steady stream of low-paid idealistic workers. The International Red Cross began operations in numerous countries in the late 19th century, promoting nursing as an ideal profession for middle-class women. Statistical methods A major breakthrough in epidemiology came with the introduction of statistical maps and graphs. They allowed careful analysis of seasonality issues in disease incidents, and the maps allowed public health officials to identify critical loci for the dissemination of disease. John Snow in London developed the methods. In 1849, he observed that the symptoms of cholera, which had already claimed around 500 lives within a month, were vomiting and diarrhoea. He concluded that the source of contamination must be through ingestion, rather than inhalation as was previously thought. It was this insight that resulted in the removal of The Pump On Broad Street, after which deaths from cholera plummeted. English nurse Florence Nightingale pioneered analysis of large amounts of statistical data, using graphs and tables, regarding the condition of thousands of patients in the Crimean War to evaluate the efficacy of hospital services. Her methods proved convincing and led to reforms in military and civilian hospitals, usually with the full support of the government.By the late 19th and early 20th century English statisticians led by Francis Galton, Karl Pearson and Ronald Fisher developed the mathematical tools such as correlations and hypothesis tests that made possible much more sophisticated analysis of statistical data.During the U.S. Civil War the Sanitary Commission collected enormous amounts of statistical data, and opened up the problems of storing information for fast access and mechanically searching for data patterns. The pioneer was John Shaw Billings (1838–1913). A senior surgeon in the war, Billings built the Library of the Surgeon General's Office (now the National Library of Medicine), the centerpiece of modern medical information systems. Billings figured out how to mechanically analyze medical and demographic data by turning facts into numbers and punching the numbers onto cardboard cards that could be sorted and counted by machine. The applications were developed by his assistant Herman Hollerith; Hollerith invented the punch card and counter-sorter system that dominated statistical data manipulation until the 1970s. Hollerith's company became International Business Machines (IBM) in 1911. Psychiatry Until the nineteenth century, the care of the insane was largely a communal and family responsibility rather than a medical one. The vast majority of the mentally ill were treated in domestic contexts with only the most unmanageable or burdensome likely to be institutionally confined. This situation was transformed radically from the late eighteenth century as, amid changing cultural conceptions of madness, a new-found optimism in the curability of insanity within the asylum setting emerged. Increasingly, lunacy was perceived less as a physiological condition than as a mental and moral one to which the correct response was persuasion, aimed at inculcating internal restraint, rather than external coercion. This new therapeutic sensibility, referred to as moral treatment, was epitomised in French physician Philippe Pinel's quasi-mythological unchaining of the lunatics of the Bicêtre Hospital in Paris and realised in an institutional setting with the foundation in 1796 of the Quaker-run York Retreat in England. From the early nineteenth century, as lay-led lunacy reform movements gained in influence, ever more state governments in the West extended their authority and responsibility over the mentally ill. Small-scale asylums, conceived as instruments to reshape both the mind and behaviour of the disturbed, proliferated across these regions. By the 1830s, moral treatment, together with the asylum itself, became increasingly medicalised and asylum doctors began to establish a distinct medical identity with the establishment in the 1840s of associations for their members in France, Germany, the United Kingdom and America, together with the founding of medico-psychological journals. Medical optimism in the capacity of the asylum to cure insanity soured by the close of the nineteenth century as the growth of the asylum population far outstripped that of the general population. Processes of long-term institutional segregation, allowing for the psychiatric conceptualisation of the natural course of mental illness, supported the perspective that the insane were a distinct population, subject to mental pathologies stemming from specific medical causes. As degeneration theory grew in influence from the mid-nineteenth century, heredity was seen as the central causal element in chronic mental illness, and, with national asylum systems overcrowded and insanity apparently undergoing an inexorable rise, the focus of psychiatric therapeutics shifted from a concern with treating the individual to maintaining the racial and biological health of national populations.Emil Kraepelin (1856–1926) introduced new medical categories of mental illness, which eventually came into psychiatric usage despite their basis in behavior rather than pathology or underlying cause. Shell shock among frontline soldiers exposed to heavy artillery bombardment was first diagnosed by British Army doctors in 1915. By 1916, similar symptoms were also noted in soldiers not exposed to explosive shocks, leading to questions as to whether the disorder was physical or psychiatric. In the 1920s surrealist opposition to psychiatry was expressed in a number of surrealist publications. In the 1930s several controversial medical practices were introduced including inducing seizures (by electroshock, insulin or other drugs) or cutting parts of the brain apart (leucotomy or lobotomy). Both came into widespread use by psychiatry, but there were grave concerns and much opposition on grounds of basic morality, harmful effects, or misuse.In the 1950s new psychiatric drugs, notably the antipsychotic chlorpromazine, were designed in laboratories and slowly came into preferred use. Although often accepted as an advance in some ways, there was some opposition, due to serious adverse effects such as tardive dyskinesia. Patients often opposed psychiatry and refused or stopped taking the drugs when not subject to psychiatric control. There was also increasing opposition to the use of psychiatric hospitals, and attempts to move people back into the community on a collaborative user-led group approach (therapeutic communities) not controlled by psychiatry. Campaigns against masturbation were done in the Victorian era and elsewhere. Lobotomy was used until the 1970s to treat schizophrenia. This was denounced by the anti-psychiatric movement in the 1960s and later. Women It was very difficult for women to become doctors in any field before the 1970s. Elizabeth Blackwell became the first woman to formally study and practice medicine in the United States. She was a leader in women's medical education. While Blackwell viewed medicine as a means for social and moral reform, her student Mary Putnam Jacobi (1842–1906) focused on curing disease. At a deeper level of disagreement, Blackwell felt that women would succeed in medicine because of their humane female values, but Jacobi believed that women should participate as the equals of men in all medical specialties using identical methods, values and insights. In the Soviet Union although the majority of medical doctors were women, they were paid less than the mostly male factory workers. Asia Places China Finally in the 19th century, Western medicine was introduced at the local level by Christian medical missionaries from the London Missionary Society (Britain), the Methodist Church (Britain) and the Presbyterian Church (US). Benjamin Hobson (1816–1873) in 1839, set up a highly successful Wai Ai Clinic in Guangzhou, China. The Hong Kong College of Medicine for Chinese was founded in 1887 by the London Missionary Society, with its first graduate (in 1892) being Sun Yat-sen, who later led the Chinese Revolution (1911). The Hong Kong College of Medicine for Chinese was the forerunner of the School of Medicine of the University of Hong Kong, which started in 1911. Because of the social custom that men and women should not be near to one another, the women of China were reluctant to be treated by male doctors. The missionaries sent women doctors such as Dr. Mary Hannah Fulton (1854–1927). Supported by the Foreign Missions Board of the Presbyterian Church (US) she in 1902 founded the first medical college for women in China, the Hackett Medical College for Women, in Guangzhou. JapanEuropean ideas of modern medicine were spread widely through the world by medical missionaries, and the dissemination of textbooks. Japanese elites enthusiastically embraced Western medicine after the Meiji Restoration of the 1860s. However they had been prepared by their knowledge of the Dutch and German medicine, for they had some contact with Europe through the Dutch. Highly influential was the 1765 edition of Hendrik van Deventer's pioneer work Nieuw Ligt (A New Light) on Japanese obstetrics, especially on Katakura Kakuryo's publication in 1799 of Sanka Hatsumo (Enlightenment of Obstetrics). A cadre of Japanese physicians began to interact with Dutch doctors, who introduced smallpox vaccinations. By 1820 Japanese ranpô medical practitioners not only translated Dutch medical texts, they integrated their readings with clinical diagnoses. These men became leaders of the modernization of medicine in their country. They broke from Japanese traditions of closed medical fraternities and adopted the European approach of an open community of collaboration based on expertise in the latest scientific methods.Kitasato Shibasaburō (1853–1931) studied bacteriology in Germany under Robert Koch. In 1891 he founded the Institute of Infectious Diseases in Tokyo, which introduced the study of bacteriology to Japan. He and French researcher Alexandre Yersin went to Hong Kong in 1894, where; Kitasato confirmed Yersin's discovery that the bacterium Yersinia pestis is the agent of the plague. In 1897 he isolated and described the organism that caused dysentery. He became the first dean of medicine at Keio University, and the first president of the Japan Medical Association.Japanese physicians immediately recognized the values of X-Rays. They were able to purchase the equipment locally from the Shimadzu Company, which developed, manufactured, marketed, and distributed X-Ray machines after 1900. Japan not only adopted German methods of public health in the home islands, but implemented them in its colonies, especially Korea and Taiwan, and after 1931 in Manchuria. A heavy investment in sanitation resulted in a dramatic increase of life expectancy. Europe The practice of medicine changed in the face of rapid advances in science, as well as new approaches by physicians. Hospital doctors began much more systematic analysis of patients' symptoms in diagnosis. Among the more powerful new techniques were anaesthesia, and the development of both antiseptic and aseptic operating theatres. Effective cures were developed for certain endemic infectious diseases. However, the decline in many of the most lethal diseases was due more to improvements in public health and nutrition than to advances in medicine.Medicine was revolutionized in the 19th century and beyond by advances in chemistry, laboratory techniques, and equipment. Old ideas of infectious disease epidemiology were gradually replaced by advances in bacteriology and virology.The Russian Orthodox Church sponsored seven orders of nursing sisters in the late 19th century. They ran hospitals, clinics, almshouses, pharmacies, and shelters as well as training schools for nurses. In the Soviet era (1917–1991), with the aristocratic sponsors gone, nursing became a low-prestige occupation based in poorly maintained hospitals. Places France Paris (France) and Vienna were the two leading medical centers on the Continent in the era 1750–1914. In the 1770s–1850s Paris became a world center of medical research and teaching. The Paris School emphasized that teaching and research should be based in large hospitals and promoted the professionalization of the medical profession and the emphasis on sanitation and public health. A major reformer was Jean-Antoine Chaptal (1756–1832), a physician who was Minister of Internal Affairs. He created the Paris Hospital, health councils, and other bodies.Louis Pasteur (1822–1895) was one of the most important founders of medical microbiology. He is remembered for his remarkable breakthroughs in the causes and preventions of diseases. His discoveries reduced mortality from puerperal fever, and he created the first vaccines for rabies and anthrax. His experiments supported the germ theory of disease. He was best known to the general public for inventing a method to treat milk and wine in order to prevent it from causing sickness, a process that came to be called pasteurization. He is regarded as one of the three main founders of microbiology, together with Ferdinand Cohn and Robert Koch. He worked chiefly in Paris and in 1887 founded the Pasteur Institute there to perpetuate his commitment to basic research and its practical applications. As soon as his institute was created, Pasteur brought together scientists with various specialties. The first five departments were directed by Emile Duclaux (general microbiology research) and Charles Chamberland (microbe research applied to hygiene), as well as a biologist, Ilya Ilyich Mechnikov (morphological microbe research) and two physicians, Jacques-Joseph Grancher (rabies) and Emile Roux (technical microbe research). One year after the inauguration of the Institut Pasteur, Roux set up the first course of microbiology ever taught in the world, then entitled Cours de Microbie Technique (Course of microbe research techniques). It became the model for numerous research centers around the world named Pasteur Institutes. Vienna The First Viennese School of Medicine, 1750–1800, was led by the Dutchman Gerard van Swieten (1700–1772), who aimed to put medicine on new scientific foundations—promoting unprejudiced clinical observation, botanical and chemical research, and introducing simple but powerful remedies. When the Vienna General Hospital opened in 1784, it at once became the world's largest hospital and physicians acquired a facility that gradually developed into the most important research centre. Progress ended with the Napoleonic wars and the government shutdown in 1819 of all liberal journals and schools; this caused a general return to traditionalism and eclecticism in medicine.Vienna was the capital of a diverse empire and attracted not just Germans but Czechs, Hungarians, Jews, Poles and others to its world-class medical facilities. After 1820 the Second Viennese School of Medicine emerged with the contributions of physicians such as Carl Freiherr von Rokitansky, Josef Škoda, Ferdinand Ritter von Hebra, and Ignaz Philipp Semmelweis. Basic medical science expanded and specialization advanced. Furthermore, the first dermatology, eye, as well as ear, nose, and throat clinics in the world were founded in Vienna. The textbook of ophthalmologist Georg Joseph Beer (1763–1821) Lehre von den Augenkrankheiten combined practical research and philosophical speculations, and became the standard reference work for decades. Berlin After 1871 Berlin, the capital of the new German Empire, became a leading center for medical research. Robert Koch (1843–1910) was a representative leader. He became famous for isolating Bacillus anthracis (1877), the Tuberculosis bacillus (1882) and Vibrio cholerae (1883) and for his development of Koch's postulates. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1905 for his tuberculosis findings. Koch is one of the founders of microbiology, inspiring such major figures as Paul Ehrlich and Gerhard Domagk. North America Events American Civil War In the American Civil War (1861–65), as was typical of the 19th century, more soldiers died of disease than in battle, and even larger numbers were temporarily incapacitated by wounds, disease and accidents. Conditions were poor in the Confederacy, where doctors and medical supplies were in short supply. The war had a dramatic long-term impact on medicine in the U.S., from surgical technique to hospitals to nursing and to research facilities. Weapon development -particularly the appearance of Springfield Model 1861, mass-produced and much more accurate than muskets led to generals underestimating the risks of long range rifle fire; risks exemplified in the death of John Sedgwick and the disastrous Pickett's Charge. The rifles could shatter bone forcing amputation and longer ranges meant casualties were sometimes not quickly found. Evacuation of the wounded from Second Battle of Bull Run took a week. As in earlier wars, untreated casualties sometimes survived unexpectedly due to maggots debriding the wound -an observation which led to the surgical use of maggots -still a useful method in the absence of effective antibiotics. The hygiene of the training and field camps was poor, especially at the beginning of the war when men who had seldom been far from home were brought together for training with thousands of strangers. First came epidemics of the childhood diseases of chicken pox, mumps, whooping cough, and, especially, measles. Operations in the South meant a dangerous and new disease environment, bringing diarrhea, dysentery, typhoid fever, and malaria. There were no antibiotics, so the surgeons prescribed coffee, whiskey, and quinine. Harsh weather, bad water, inadequate shelter in winter quarters, poor policing of camps, and dirty camp hospitals took their toll.This was a common scenario in wars from time immemorial, and conditions faced by the Confederate army were even worse. The Union responded by building army hospitals in every state. What was different in the Union was the emergence of skilled, well-funded medical organizers who took proactive action, especially in the much enlarged United States Army Medical Department, and the United States Sanitary Commission, a new private agency. Numerous other new agencies also targeted the medical and morale needs of soldiers, including the United States Christian Commission as well as smaller private agencies.The U.S. Army learned many lessons and in August 1886, it established the Hospital Corps. Institutions Johns Hopkins Hospital, founded in 1889, originated several modern medical practices, including residency and rounds. People Cardiovascular Blood groups The ABO blood group system was discovered in 1901 by Karl Landsteiner at the University of Vienna. Landsteiner experimented on his staff, mixing their various blood components together, and found that some people's blood agglutinated (clumped together) with other blood, whilst some did not. This then lead him identifying three blood groups, ABC, which would later be renamed to ABO. The less frequently found blood group AB was discovered later in 1902 by Alfred Von Decastello and Adriano Sturli. In 1937 Landsteiner and Alexander S. Wiener further discovered the Rh factor (misnamed from early thinking that this blood group was similar to that found in rhesus monkeys) whose antigens further determine blood reaction between people. This was demonstrated in a 1939 case study by Phillip Levine and Rufus Stetson where a mother who had recently given birth had reacted to their partner's blood, highlighting the Rh factor. Blood transfusion Canadian physician Norman Bethune, M.D. developed a mobile blood-transfusion service for frontline operations in the Spanish Civil War (1936–1939), but ironically, he himself died of sepsis. Pacemaker In 1958, Arne Larsson in Sweden became the first patient to depend on an artificial cardiac pacemaker. He died in 2001 at age 86, having outlived its inventor, the surgeon, and 26 pacemakers. Cancer Cancer treatment has been developed with radiotherapy, chemotherapy and surgical oncology. Diagnosis X-ray imaging was the first kind of medical imaging, and later ultrasonic imaging, CT scanning, MR scanning and other imaging methods became available. Disabilities Prosthetics have improved with lightweight materials as well as neural prosthetics emerging in the end of the 20th century. Diseases Oral rehydration therapy has been extensively used since the 1970s to treat cholera and other diarrhea-inducing infections. As infectious diseases have become less lethal, and the most common causes of death in developed countries are now tumors and cardiovascular diseases, these conditions have received increased attention in medical research. Disease eradication Malaria eradication Starting in World War II, DDT was used as insecticide to combat insect vectors carrying malaria, which was endemic in most tropical regions of the world. The first goal was to protect soldiers, but it was widely adopted as a public health device. In Liberia, for example, the United States had large military operations during the war and the U.S. Public Health Service began the use of DDT for indoor residual spraying (IRS) and as a larvicide, with the goal of controlling malaria in Monrovia, the Liberian capital. In the early 1950s, the project was expanded to nearby villages. In 1953, the World Health Organization (WHO) launched an antimalaria program in parts of Liberia as a pilot project to determine the feasibility of malaria eradication in tropical Africa. However these projects encountered a spate of difficulties that foreshadowed the general retreat from malaria eradication efforts across tropical Africa by the mid-1960s. Pandemics 1918 influenza pandemic (1918-1920) The 1918 influenza pandemic was a global pandemic in the early 20th century that occurred between 1918 and 1920. Sometimes known as Spanish Flu due to popular opinion at the time thinking the flu originated from Spain, this pandemic caused close to 50 million deaths around the world. Spreading at the end of World War I. Public health Public health measures became particularly important during the 1918 flu pandemic, which killed at least 50 million people around the world. It became an important case study in epidemiology. Bristow shows there was a gendered response of health caregivers to the pandemic in the United States. Male doctors were unable to cure the patients, and they felt like failures. Women nurses also saw their patients die, but they took pride in their success in fulfilling their professional role of caring for, ministering, comforting, and easing the last hours of their patients, and helping the families of the patients cope as well. Research Evidence-based medicine is a modern concept, not introduced to literature until the 1990s. Sexual and reproductive health The sexual revolution included taboo-breaking research in human sexuality such as the 1948 and 1953 Kinsey reports, invention of hormonal contraception, and the normalization of abortion and homosexuality in many countries. Family planning has promoted a demographic transition in most of the world. With threatening sexually transmitted infections, not least HIV, use of barrier contraception has become imperative. The struggle against HIV has improved antiretroviral treatments. Smoking Tobacco smoking as a cause of lung cancer was first researched in the 1920s, but was not widely supported by publications until the 1950s. Surgery Cardiac surgery was revolutionized in 1948 as open-heart surgery was introduced for the first time since 1925. In 1954 Joseph Murray, J. Hartwell Harrison and others accomplished the first kidney transplantation. Transplantations of other organs, such as heart, liver and pancreas, were also introduced during the later 20th century. The first partial face transplant was performed in 2005, and the first full one in 2010. By the end of the 20th century, microtechnology had been used to create tiny robotic devices to assist microsurgery using micro-video and fiber-optic cameras to view internal tissues during surgery with minimally invasive practices. Laparoscopic surgery was broadly introduced in the 1990s. Natural orifice surgery has followed. War Mexican Revolution (1910-1920) During the 19th century, large-scale wars were attended with medics and mobile hospital units which developed advanced techniques for healing massive injuries and controlling infections rampant in battlefield conditions. During the Mexican Revolution (1910–1920), General Pancho Villa organized hospital trains for wounded soldiers. Boxcars marked Servicio Sanitario (sanitary service) were re-purposed as surgical operating theaters and areas for recuperation, and staffed by up to 40 Mexican and U.S. physicians. Severely wounded soldiers were shuttled back to base hospitals. World War I (1914-1918) Thousands of scarred troops provided the need for improved prosthetic limbs and expanded techniques in plastic surgery or reconstructive surgery. Those practices were combined to broaden cosmetic surgery and other forms of elective surgery. Interwar period (1918-1939) From 1917 to 1932, the American Red Cross moved into Europe with a battery of long-term child health projects. It built and operated hospitals and clinics, and organized antituberculosis and antityphus campaigns. A high priority involved child health programs such as clinics, better baby shows, playgrounds, fresh air camps, and courses for women on infant hygiene. Hundreds of U.S. doctors, nurses, and welfare professionals administered these programs, which aimed to reform the health of European youth and to reshape European public health and welfare along American lines. World War II (1939-1945) The advances in medicine made a dramatic difference for Allied troops, while the Germans and especially the Japanese and Chinese suffered from a severe lack of newer medicines, techniques and facilities. Harrison finds that the chances of recovery for a badly wounded British infantryman were as much as 25 times better than in the First World War. The reason was that: By 1944 most casualties were receiving treatment within hours of wounding, due to the increased mobility of field hospitals and the extensive use of aeroplanes as ambulances. The care of the sick and wounded had also been revolutionized by new medical technologies, such as active immunization against tetanus, sulphonamide drugs, and penicillin.During the second World War, Alexis Carrel and Henry Dakin developed the Carrel-Dakin method of treating wounds with an irrigation, Dakin's solution, a germicide which helped prevent gangrene.The War spurred the usage of Roentgen's X-ray, and the electrocardiograph, for the monitoring of internal bodily functions. This was followed in the inter-war period by the development of the first anti-bacterial agents such as the sulpha antibiotics. Nazi and Japanese medical research Unethical human subject research, and killing of patients with disabilities, peaked during the Nazi era, with Nazi human experimentation and Aktion T4 during the Holocaust as the most significant examples. Many of the details of these and related events were the focus of the Doctors' Trial. Subsequently, principles of medical ethics, such as the Nuremberg Code, were introduced to prevent a recurrence of such atrocities. After 1937, the Japanese Army established programs of biological warfare in China. In Unit 731, Japanese doctors and research scientists conducted large numbers of vivisections and experiments on human beings, mostly Chinese victims. Institutions World Health Organization The World Health Organization was founded in 1948 as a United Nations agency to improve global health. In most of the world, life expectancy has improved since then, and was about 67 years as of 2010, and well above 80 years in some countries. Eradication of infectious diseases is an international effort, and several new vaccines have been developed during the post-war years, against infections such as measles, mumps, several strains of influenza and human papilloma virus. The long-known vaccine against Smallpox finally eradicated the disease in the 1970s, and Rinderpest was wiped out in 2011. Eradication of polio is underway. Tissue culture is important for development of vaccines. Though the early success of antiviral vaccines and antibacterial drugs, antiviral drugs were not introduced until the 1970s. Through the WHO, the international community has developed a response protocol against epidemics, displayed during the SARS epidemic in 2003, the Influenza A virus subtype H5N1 from 2004, the Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa and onwards. People Contemporary medicine Antibiotics and antibiotic resistance The discovery of penicillin in the 20th century by Alexander Fleming provided a vital line of defence against bacterical infections that, without them, often cause patients to suffer prelonged recovery periods and highly increased chances of death. Its discovery and application within medicine allowed previously impossible treatments to take place, including cancer treatments, organ transplants, to open heart surgery. Throughout the 20th century, though, their overprescribed use to humans, as well as to animals that need them due to the conditions of intensive animal farming, has led to the development of antibiotic resistant bacteria. Robotics Pandemics The early 21st century, facilitated by extensive global connections, international travel, and unprecedented human disruption of ecological systems, has been defined by a number of noval as well as continuing global pandemics from the 20th century. Past The SARS 2002 to 2004 outbreak affected a number of countries around the world and killed hundreds. This outbreak gave rise to a number of lessons learnt from viral infection control, including more effective isolation room protocols to better hand washing techniques for medical staff. A mutated strain of SARS would go on to develop into COVID-19, causing the future COVID-19 pandemic. A significant influenza strain, H1N1, caused a further pandemic between 2009 and 2010. Known as swine flu, due to its indirect source from pigs, it went on to infect over 700 million people. Ongoing The continuing HIV pandemic, starting in 1981, has infected and led to the deaths of millions of people around the world. Emerging and improved pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) and post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) treatments that aim to reduce the spread of the disease have proven effective in limiting the spread of HIV alongside combined use of safe sex methods, sexual health education, needle exchange programmes, and sexual health screenings. Efforts to find a HIV vaccine are ongoing whilst health inequities have left certain population groups, like trans women, as well as resource limited regions, like sub-Saharan Africa, at greater risk of contracting HIV compared with, for example, developed countries.The outbreak of COVID-19, starting in 2019, and subsequent declaration of the COVID-19 pandemic by the WHO is a major pandemic event within the early 21st century. Causing global disruptions, millions of infections and deaths, the pandemic has caused suffering throughout communities. The pandemic has also seen some of the largest logistical organisations of goods, medical equipment, medical professionals, and military personnel since World War II that highlights its far-reaching impact. Personalised medicine The rise of personalised medicine in the 21st century has generated the possibility to develop diagnosis and treatments based on the individual characteristics of a person, rather than through generic practices that defined 20th century medicine. Areas like DNA sequencing, genetic mapping, gene therapy, imaging protocols, proteomics, stem cell therapy, and wireless health monitoring devices are all rising innovations that can help medical professionals fine tune treatment to the individual. Telemedicine Remote surgery is another recent development, with the transatlantic Lindbergh operation in 2001 as a groundbreaking example. Institutions People Themes in medical history Racism in medicine Racism has a long history in how medicine has evolved and established itself, both in terms of racism experience upon patients, professionals, and wider systematic violence within medical institutions and systems. See: medical racism in the United States, race and health, and scientific racism. Women in medicine Women have always served as healers and midwives since ancient times. However, the professionalization of medicine forced them increasingly to the sidelines. As hospitals multiplied they relied in Europe on orders of Roman Catholic nun-nurses, and German Protestant and Anglican deaconesses in the early 19th century. They were trained in traditional methods of physical care that involved little knowledge of medicine. See also Explanatory notes References Further reading External links Texts on Wikisource: Senfelder L (1911). History of Medicine. Catholic Encyclopedia. Vol. 10. The history of medicine and surgery as portrayed by various artists Directory of History of Medicine Collections Archived 2013-09-16 at the Wayback Machine, Index to the major collections in the United States and Canada, selected by the US National Institute of Health Healthcare professional credentials are credentials awarded to many healthcare practitioners as a way to standardize the level of education and ability to provide care. Clinicians Physician Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) Dentist Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS) Optometrist Doctor of Optometry (OD) Podiatrist Doctor of Podiatry (DPM) Chiropractor Doctor of Chiropractic (DC) Physician Assistant (PA) Doctor of Medical Science (D.Med.Sc. ), (D.M.Sc.) Master of Medical Science (M.Med.Sc), (M.M.Sc.) Master of Physician Assistant Studies (M.P.A.S.) Professional (Second-entry) Bachelor of Science in Physician Assistant (B.Sc.PA. ), (B.H.Sc.PA) Pharmacist (R.Ph.) Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) Master of Pharmacy (MPharm) Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharm) Medical Researchers Philosophiae Doctor (Ph.D.) Dr. mr. (Doctor of Medical Research) Allied Health Professionals Respiratory practitioner (aka respiratory therapist or respiratory care practitioner) (RRT, CRT) Associate of Science in Respiratory Therapy (ASRT) Bachelor of Science in Respiratory Therapy (BSRT) Master of Science in Respiratory Therapy (MSRT) Paramedic (NRP) Emergency Medical Technician (EMT-B, EMT-I, EMT-IV, EMT-I/99, EMT-I/89, NREMT, NRAEMT) Athletic Trainer (ATC)Bachelor of Science in Athletic Trainer (BS) Masters of Athletic Training (MSAT, MAT) CAATE Board of Certification, Inc. (ATC) Dietician Registered Dietitian (RD) Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN) Radiographer and specialties Varies by country, see main article. Occupational therapist Master of Occupational Therapy (MOT) Doctor of Occupational Therapy (OTD) Physical therapist Master of Physical Therapy (MPT) Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) Speech therapist/Speech-Language Pathologist Speech and Language Pathologist (SLP) Music therapist Board Certified Music Therapist (MT-BC) Master of Music Therapy (MMT) Surgical technologist Associate of Applied Science in Surgical Technology Medical Laboratory Technician/Medical Laboratory Scientist/Medical Technologist (MLT, MLS, MT) Associate of Science in Medical (Clinical) Laboratory Sciences (ASMLS, ASCLS, degrees, MLT Certification Eligible if from a NAACLS accredited program) Bachelor of Science in Medical (Clinical) Laboratory Sciences (BSMT, BSMLS, BSCLS degrees, MLS Certification Eligible if from a NAACLS accredited program) Masters of Science in Medical (Clinical) Laboratory Sciences (MSMLS, MSCLS degrees) Doctor of Science in Clinical Laboratory Sciences (DSCLS degree) Nursing Registered nurse (RN) Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Associate of Science in Nursing (ASN) Diploma in Nursing Practical nurse (PN, LPN, VN) Certified anesthesiologist assistant (CAA) Assistants Nurse aide (CNA) Nurse technician (CNT) Care partner (CP) Medical Assistants Certified Medical Assistant (CMA) Certified Medical Assistant - Admin (CMA-A) Certified Medical Assistant - Clinical (CMA-C) Certified Medical Assistant - Admin and Clinical (CMA-AC) Registered Medical Assistant (RMA) Medical Assistant (MA) Certified Clinical Medical Assistant (CCMA) Certified Medical Administrative Assistant (CMAA) Pharmacy Technician Certified Pharmacy Technician (CPhT) Therapy assistants Physical therapy assistant (PTA) Associate of Applied Science in Physical Therapist Assistant Occupational therapy assistant Associate of Applied Science in Occupational Therapy Assistant(AAS OTA) (COTA) Alternative Medicine Naturopaths Naturopathy (ND) Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, an Institute under State Legislature Act (Government), was established on 19 November 1983 as an autonomous organisation on the pattern of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. It is one of the main health care institutions in the state of Bihar. It is the only superspecialist institute of Bihar and tops the hierarchy in patient referral chain. The institute provides education in medicine and does conducts many health and medicinal research in Bihar. It received affiliation of medical college from MCI in September 2011. It has 120 recognised MBBS seats and the highest number of superspeciality seats among the colleges of Bihar. It is recognised to provide degree of MBBS, MD, MS, M.Ch, DM, DNB, Ph.D. and various paramedical degrees. Campus IGIMS is located in Bailey Road. The whole medical college and hospital campus is spread over an area of 131 acres. The hospital is proposed to have 2500 beds in the coming few years. At present, there are nearly 1070 beds present with a 100-bed Regional Cancer Institute. Construction is ongoing of another 500-bed ultra modern hospital, and 200-bed Regional Institute of Ophthalmology. Departments IGIMS provides the following clinical departments: Anaesthesia Endocrinology Cardiology Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery Community Medicine Dentistry Ear, Nose & Throat (ENT) Gastroenterology GI Surgery Internal Medicine Nephrology Neurosurgery Neurology Nuclear Medicine Orthopedics Paediatric Psychiatry Pulmonology Reproductive Biology Regional Cancer Center Regional Institute of Ophthalmology (RIO) Skin (Dermatology) Urology Trauma and Casualty General Surgery Pediatric Surgery References External links Official website of IGIMS Amrita Hospital, formerly known as Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS) is a multi-speciality tertiary care hospital based in Kochi, India. It is attached to Amrita University school of medicine and one of the largest medical facilities in India with a total built-up area of over 3.33 million sq.ft, spread over 125 acres of land. It is a 1,350-bed hospital which supports an annual patient volume of about 800,000 outpatients and 50,000 inpatients. It was founded by Mata Amritanandamayi and inaugurated on 17 May 1998 by the then Prime Minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The Mata Amritanandamayi Math is its parent organisation. The campus also houses medical school, dentistry, nursing, health sciences, pharmacy schools of Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham. Ron Gottsegen is the executive director and Prem Nair is the medical director of the institution. Dr.Gireesh Kumar K.P. is the Principal/Dean of Amrita School of Medicine. The hospital has got accreditation from the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) for its laboratories and the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) for the hospital overall. In 2022, Amrita School of Medicine was ranked the eighth best medical college in India by the Ministry of Human Resource Development in their annual NIRF rankings. Overview Amrita hospital at Kochi offers facilities comprising 31 modern operating theatres, 275 equipped intensive care beds, a fully computerised and networked Hospital Information System (HIS), a fully digital radiology department, a 24/7 telemedicine service and a clinical laboratory. The healthcare infrastructure along with the medical school has a built-up area of 3.33 million sq. ft and is spread across 125 acres of land. The Amrita University medical school has 17 Centres of Excellence and 29 Speciality Departments supported by 670 faculty members and 4,000 support staff. The foundation stone for a second Amrita Hospital in Faridabad, Haryana was laid on May 9, 2016, to serve the Delhi National Capital Region. With 2,400 beds and 81 speciality departments, it is be India's largest private hospital. The new facility was opened on August 24, 2022, by Prime minister of India Narendra Modi. Facilities Total beds: 1,350 Total intensive care beds: 275 Total inpatients per year: 50,000 Total outpatients per year: 800,000 Total operation theatres: 31 Total robotic surgery procedures: 3871 Total organ transplants: 2148 Research and development Development of nanomedicine with ability to kill drug resistant cancer On 16 October 2012, AIMS announced that it had developed a nanomedicine for treating drug resistant cancer cells for Leukaemia(Blood Cancer). Awards National Healthcare Excellence Award 2013 In December 2013, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) awarded AIMS with the ‘National Healthcare Excellence Award 2013’ for the best hospital in the country. The award is in recognition of the hospital's outstanding work toward the betterment of healthcare and its efficient and timely service. National Healthcare Excellence Awards 2016 In September 2016, the Federation Of India Chamber Of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) awarded AIMS with two 'Nation Healthcare Excellence Awards'. AIMS won the awards for the categories of 'Patient Safety' and 'Innovation in Medical Technology.' The 'Innovation in Medical Technology' award was accepted by Dr. Mahesh Kappanayil for developing a 3D printing model in congenital heart surgery. The 'Patient Safety' award was accepted by Dr. Sanjeev Singh for his work on patient safety and antibiotic stewardship. Controversies Nurses' strike demanding wage hike In December 2011, nurses at the Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre went on strike against the hospital management, demanding a wage hike. This was part of a series of statewide strikes by nurses throughout Kerala. The strike was called when leaders of the United Nurses' Association claimed that they were beaten by members of the hospital staff. Later, police was summoned to stop the protests, and they resorted to batons to disperse the protestors. Management claimed that the operations would not be affected even if the nurses continued their indefinite strike. They stated that hundreds of nursing graduates who were Amritanandamayi's devotees were waiting to server patients at the hospital. Finally a consensus was reached between the hospital management and the protestors, wherein the charges against the protestors would be withdrawn by the hospital management and their demand for wage hike would be considered. Allegation of illegal drug trials In August 2012 Indiavision television channel reported that the Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre and many hospitals in Kerala were testing new drugs on patients selected through free medical camps. Kerala minister for health, V. S. Sivakumar said the incident would be investigated. The accusations against the hospital were subsequently found to be false. See also List of medical colleges in India Amrita School of Medicine Amrita Hospital, Faridabad References External links AIMS hospital website A medical laboratory scientist (MLS) or clinical laboratory scientist (CLS) or medical technologist (MT) performs diagnostic testing of blood and body fluids in clinical laboratories. The scope of a medical laboratory scientist's work begins with the receipt of patient or client specimens and terminates with the delivery of test results to physicians and other healthcare providers. The utility of clinical diagnostic testing relies squarely on the validity of test methodology. To this end, much of the work done by medical laboratory scientists involves ensuring specimen quality, interpreting test results, data-logging, testing control products, performing calibration, maintenance, validation, and troubleshooting of instrumentation as well as performing statistical analyses to verify the accuracy and repeatability of testing. Medical laboratory scientists may also assist healthcare providers with test selection and specimen collection and are responsible for prompt verbal delivery of critical lab results. Medical Laboratory Scientists in healthcare settings also play an important role in clinical diagnosis. An estimated 70% of medical decisions are based on laboratory test results and MLS contributions affect 95% of a health system's costs. The most common tests performed by medical laboratory scientists are complete blood count (CBC), comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP), electrolyte panel, liver function tests (LFT), renal function tests (RFT), thyroid function test (TFT), urinalysis, coagulation profile, lipid profile, blood type, semen analysis (for fertility and post-vasectomy studies), serological studies and routine cultures. In some facilities that have few phlebotomists, or none at all, (such as in rural areas) medical laboratory scientists may perform phlebotomy. Because medical laboratory scientists have many transferable technical skills, employment outside of the medical laboratory is common. Many medical laboratory scientists are employed in government positions such as the FDA, USDA, non-medical industrial laboratories, and manufacturing. In the United Kingdom and the United States, senior laboratory scientists, who are typically post-doctoral scientists, take on significantly greater clinical responsibilities in the laboratory. In the United States these scientists may function in the role of clinical laboratory directors, while in the United Kingdom they are known as consultant clinical scientists. Though clinical scientists have existed in the UK National Health Service for ~60 years, the introduction of formally-trained and accredited consultant-level clinical scientists is relatively new, and was introduced as part of the new Modernising Scientific Careers framework. Consultant clinical scientists are expected to provide expert scientific and clinical leadership alongside and, at the same level as, medical consultant colleagues. While specialists in healthcare science will follow protocols, procedures and clinical guidelines, consultant clinical scientists will help shape future guidelines and the implementation of new and emerging technologies to help advance patient care. In the United Kingdom, healthcare scientists including clinical scientists may intervene throughout entire care pathways from diagnostic tests to therapeutic treatments and rehabilitation. Although this workforce comprises approximately 5% of the healthcare workforce in the UK, their work underpins 80% of all diagnoses and clinical decisions made. Specialty areas Many Medical Laboratory Scientists are generalists, skilled in most areas of the clinical laboratory. However, some are specialists, qualified by unique undergraduate education or additional training to perform more complex analyses than usual within a specific field. Specialties include clinical biochemistry, hematology, coagulation, microbiology, bacteriology, toxicology, virology, parasitology, mycology, immunology, immunohematology (blood bank), histopathology, histocompatibility, cytopathology, genetics, cytogenetics, electron microscopy, and IVF labs. Medical Technologists specialty may use additional credentials, such as SBB (Specialist in Blood Banking) from the American Association of Blood Banks, SM (Specialist in Microbiology) from the American Society for Microbiology, SC (Specialist in Chemistry) from the American Association for Clinical Chemistry, or SH (Specialist in Hematology) from the American Society for Clinical Pathology (ASCP). These additional notations may be appended to the base credential, for example, MLS(ASCP)SBB. Additional information can be found in the ASCP Procedures for Examination & Certification.Andrology Laboratory Scientist, Embryology Laboratory Scientist, and Molecular Diagnostics Technologist certifications are provided by the American Association of Bioanalysts; those with the certifications are classified as ALS(AAB), ELS(AAB), and MDxT(AAB) respectively. Certified Histocompatibility Associate, Certified Histocompatibility Technologist, Certified Histocompatibility Specialist, and Diplomate of the ABHI are titles granted by the American Board of Hisocompatibility and Immunogenetics after meeting education and experience requirements and passing the required examination; those individuals would hold the credentials CHA(ABHI), CHT(ABHI), CHS(AHBI), and D(ABHI) upon passing the corresponding examination.In the United States, Medical Laboratory Scientists can be certified and employed in infection control. These professionals monitor and report infectious disease findings to help limit iatrogenic and nosocomial infections. They may also educate other healthcare workers about such problems and ways to minimize them.In the United Kingdom the number of Clinical Scientists in a pathology discipline are typically greater, where less medically qualified pathologists train as consultants. Clinical Biochemistry, Clinical Immunology and Genomic Medicine are specialities with an abundance of UK Clinical Scientists, and where the role is well established. Infection services in the United Kingdom are generally undertaken by medically qualified Microbiologists, who may have overall responsibility for laboratory services in addition to Infection Prevention and Control responsibilities, and may be required to contribute to ward rounds and patient clinics. Therefore, the Royal College of Pathologists and Royal College of Physicians have developed Combined Infection Training, that medical trainees gain a much more patient focused experience, and undertake Physician examinations in addition to Pathology training. The result of this is that several regional medical deaneries no longer permit Medical Doctors to train in Microbiology or Virology as single disciplines, and instead advocate dual-specialisation as Infectious Disease/Microbiology or Infectious Disease/Virology . Simultaneously the expansion of higher specialist scientist trainees in microbiology mean that many of the laboratory and scientific responsibilities of medical doctors may be taken on by Clinical Scientists, and medical doctors will instead be expected to perform a much more patient facing role. The exception in Microbiology is the sub-discipline of Virology, which is well suited to the expertise of clinical scientists due to reliance on cutting-edge scientific methods, increasing use of specialised genetic technologies, and a technical understanding of virus biology, with a reduced emphasis on patient management compared with Microbiology as a whole. It is therefore likely that many patients in UK hospitals may come into contact with Clinical Scientists working in a patient facing speciality, who may be confused with medical doctors due to the complex nature of their role. Educational requirements Educational and licensing requirements vary by country due to differing scopes of practice and legislative differences. Australia In Australia, medical laboratory scientists complete a four-year undergraduate degree program in medical science, medical laboratory science or laboratory medicine. These programs should be accredited by the Australian Institute of Medical and Clinical Scientists (AIMS). Canada In Canada, three-year college or technical school programs are offered that include seven semesters, two of them comprising an unpaid internship. The student graduates before taking a standard examination (such as the Canadian Society for Medical Laboratory Science, or CSMLS, exam) to be qualified as a medical laboratory technologist. Many MLTs go on to Canada is currently experiencing an increasing problem with staffing shortages in medical laboratories. New Zealand In New Zealand, a medical laboratory scientist must complete a bachelor's degree in medical laboratory science or biological or chemical science recognized by the Medical Sciences Council of New Zealand. As part of this degree they must complete clinical placement. Once they graduate they must have worked at least six months under supervision, be registered with the Medical Sciences Counsel of New Zealand, and hold a current Annual Practicing Certificate. Ghana In Ghana, a doctor of medical laboratory scientist (MLS.D) is a professional with a six years professional doctorate degree in medical laboratory science, the medical laboratory scientist (MLS) has four years bachelor's degree in medical laboratory science and the medical laboratory technicians (MLT) has three years diploma in medical laboratory science. The curriculum for the programme include internship rotations, where the students get hands-on experiences in each discipline of the laboratory and performs diagnostic testing in a functioning laboratory under supervision. India In India, Medical laboratory science education is divided into secondary, post-secondary, undergraduate, and post-graduate. The courses are offered by many state boards of vocational education post-secondary, State technical education boards, and various universities under the UGC. Some universities have vocational degrees abbreviated as Bachelor in vocational education (B.Voc MLT) and Masters in vocational education (M.Voc MLT). Medical laboratory technologist and technician registration is done at the state level, such as in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. A new commission will be formed called the National Commission for Allied and Healthcare Professions (NCAHP) to replace state registers with central registers enforced and controlled by NCAHP. After secondary (10+), education is called DMLT; it's 2 years offered by Vocational boards of respective states for example MSBSVET. After Post-secondary education (12+), it is also called the DMLT of 2 years offered by Vocational boards of respective states for example MSBSVET. The undergraduate degree in MLT is 3 or 4 years offered by universities such as University of Mumbai. State boards of technical education(ie MSBTE) offer an Advanced Diploma of 2 years equivalent to the PGDMLT (postgraduate diploma in medical laboratory technology) offered by universities. A postgraduate degree in MLS Is 2 years offered by universities such as University of Mumbai. Pakistan In Pakistan, the National Institute of Health (NIH) in Islamabad is the pioneer in Laboratory Sciences. The College of Medical Lab Technology (CMLT) of the NIH offers a two-year F.Sc degree in Medical Lab Technology (MLT). The previous two-year B.Sc. in MLT was discontinued and replaced by the four-year Bachelor Program in Medical Lab Sciences (MLS). The University of Health Sciences in Lahore also offers a four-year Bachelor program in MLS through approved colleges. The University of Lahore, University of Faisalabad, University of Sargodha, and Superior University in Lahore all offer a five-year Doctor of Medical Lab Sciences (DMLS) Program. Eligibility criteria for the four-year B.Sc. in MLS and the five-year Doctor of Medical Lab Sciences (DMLS) is the F.Sc. Pre-Medical. United States In the United States, a medical laboratory scientist (MLS), medical technologist (MT), or a clinical laboratory scientist (CLS) typically earns a bachelor's degree in medical laboratory science, clinical laboratory science, or medical technology. Other routes include attaining a degree in biomedical science or in a life / biological science (biology, biochemistry, microbiology, etc.). Both routes typically requires the MLS/MT/CLS to obtain certification from a national certifying board (AAB, AMT, or ASCP) as most laboratories exceed the federal minimum requirements established by the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA). Common comprehensive Medical laboratory scientist degree programs are set up in a few different ways. In 3+1 programs, the student attends classroom courses for three years and complete a clinical rotation their final year of study. In 2+2 programs, students have already completed their lower division coursework and return to complete their last two years of study in a CLS program. In 4+1 program, students who have already completed an undergraduate program return to complete a year of medical laboratory training. The training is typically completed at a clinical site rather than a college.The core curriculum in medical technology generally comprises 20 credits in clinical chemistry, 20 credits in hematology, and 20 credits in clinical microbiology. During clinical rotations, the student experiences hands-on learning in each discipline of the laboratory and performs diagnostic testing in a functioning laboratory under supervision. With limited or no compensation, a student in the clinical phase of training usually works 40 hours per week for 20 to 52 weeks. Some programs in the United States have halved the time students spend completing their clinical rotation reduced due to staffing shortages. For example, in 2015, the MLS program at the University of Minnesota reduced the clinical rotation portion of the program from 22 weeks to 12 weeks.In the United States, a two-year academic program (associate's degree) qualifies the graduate to work as a medical laboratory technician (MLT). MLTs receive training more exclusively in laboratory sciences without the basic science coursework often required by MLS programs; however, there are many MLT training programs that require substantial basic didactic science course work prior to entry into a clinical practicum. Although the didactic coursework may be less for the MLT, the clinical practicum, in many cases, is similar to that of the MLS student's. This equates to MLTs who are well equipped to enter the work force with relevant and knowledge based practical application. The shorter training time may be attractive to many students, but there are disadvantages to this route. MTs, MLSs and CLSs usually earn higher salaries and have more responsibilities than MLTs. In 2018, medical laboratory technicians earned an average salary of $51,219, while medical laboratory scientists earned a salary of $67,888. An added disadvantage for MLTs is that some institutions will only employ MLSs, although that practice is starting to change due to recent efforts in cost reduction, and due to staffing shortages. In practice, the term medical laboratory technician may apply to persons who are trained to operate equipment and perform tests, usually under the supervision of the certified medical technologist or laboratory scientist. Depending on the state where employment is granted, the job duties between MLSs and MLTs may or may not be similar. For example, in Florida, a MLT may only perform highly complex testing while under the direct supervision of a clinical laboratory technologist, a clinical laboratory supervisor, or a clinical laboratory director. This may make it impractical for a MLT to lawfully work in a Florida blood bank. California has similar restrictions on MLTs. To accommodate California's restrictions, the American Association of Bioanalysts (AAB) developed a separate certification examination for California licensure. However, this exam does not include material covering the areas of immunohematology or microscopy. Although the typical entry-level academic requirement for most MLTs is an associate degree, a 60 credit certificate program exists through military training programs; such as the U.S. Army's 68K military occupational specialty.As in other countries, staffing shortages have become a major issue in many clinical laboratories in the United States. Due to several factors, including boomer retirement, and inadequate recruitment and retention efforts, the medical laboratory workforce is shrinking. For the decade 2010–2020, workforce needs are expected to grow by 13%. This translates into about 11,300 positions per year that will need to be filled, with only about 5000 new graduates per year coming out of various programs. By 2025, it is estimated that the shortage of medical laboratory professionals will reach 98,700 in the U.S. United Kingdom In the United Kingdom (UK) there are two varieties of registered healthcare scientist in hospitals - Clinical Scientists and Biomedical Scientists (BMS). There is a strict and formal post graduate training programme for both careers followed by statutory registration for each with the Health & Care Professions Council UK (HCPC):, for the safety and assurance of the customers - the patients. They are two similar but distinct careers with parallel but different training paths and different entry requirements. The role of Clinical Scientists is to improve the health and well-being of patients and the public by practising alongside doctors, nurses, and other health and social care professionals in the delivery of healthcare. Their aim is to provide expert scientific and clinical advice to clinician colleagues, to aid in the diagnosis, treatment and management of patient care. Examples of the type of work they undertake include: Advising, diagnosing, interpreting, and treating patients. Advising health and social care professionals in the diagnosis and treatment of patients. Researching the science, technology, and practise used in healthcare to innovate and improve services. Designing, building, and operating technology for diagnosing and treating patients. Ensuring the safety and reliability of tests and equipment used in healthcare.Trainee Clinical Scientist posts are advertised nationally, usually between November and February on the Clinical Scientists Recruitment webpages where application forms may be obtained and electronic submission of applications can be made. These posts are for the approved Pre-registration Training Programme, designed to prepare entrants for higher professional qualifications, further clinical training and eventual Consultant responsibility. Clinical Scientist training involves enrolment of graduates (first or second class honours degree or better is essential due to the high competition for limited training places) into an intensive three-year training scheme leading to certification and eventual registration before starting the higher career structure. The basic qualification for becoming a Clinical Biochemist, Clinical Immunologist or Clinical Microbiologist is a good Honours degree in an appropriate subject: for Clinical Biochemistry, that subject might be Biochemistry or Chemistry (or another life science subject which contains a substantial Biochemistry component); for Clinical Immunology, that subject might be any life science degree with an immunology component; for Clinical Microbiology that subject might be any life science degree with a microbiology component. Although not essential, some candidates will apply with higher degrees in an attempt to improve their chances of selection for training and several universities currently offer MSc courses in Clinical Biochemistry, Immunology and Microbiology which have been approved by the ACB or the AHCS. Full-time and 'sandwich' courses are available, and further information may be obtained from individual programmes, although the level of financial support provided varies, and should be clarified at interview. Some entrants to the profession will already have obtained a PhD, and the training and research experience that this provides is invaluable to the work of the Clinical Scientist. In larger Departments, there may be opportunities to study for a research degree after entering the profession and acquiring registration, but since this has to be fitted in with other responsibilities, it may take some years to complete. It should be clearly understood that the major role of the profession is patient care and that research, management and all the other aspects will come as side issues and not be the predominating factor in the career path. The work of Biomedical Scientists and Clinical Scientists have impact on the diagnosis and treatment of almost every patient admitted to hospitals in the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom is facing a shortage of qualified Clinical and Biomedical Scientists. The Royal College of Pathologists and the Royal College of Physicians have pointed out the need for increased government funding for medical training programs to prevent diagnostic facilities and medical infrastructure from being overwhelmed. MSF claims that these workers have lost out financially since the decision of the then health minister Kenneth Clarke to exclude them from the pay review body in 1984. Nigeria In Nigeria, Medical Laboratory Science is a high skilled profession charged by Act 11 of 2003 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria. The initial qualification awarded graduates of the programme, like some other medical programmes, was Associate of the Institute of Medical Laboratory Technology/Science (AIMLT/AIMLS) The Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria, which was established by Act. 2004 Cap 114 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, regulates the practice of Medical Laboratory Science in Nigeria. In Nigeria, the Medical Laboratory Science programme is Bachelor of Medical Laboratory Science (BMLS), regulated by National Universities Commission (NUC) and by the Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria (MLSCN). Students at their first year (100 level) are trained under the Faculty of Science in Basic Sciences and Faculty of Arts, Management and Social science in General studies and Entrepreneurship. At the 200 level, students are taught basic medical sciences and are introduced to Medical Laboratory Science. The third year of the programme marks the beginning of the professional training as students are engaged in the classroom for lectures as well as in the Hospital laboratory for the professional or practical training. At the fourth year, students are taught the basics in all the special areas of Medical Laboratory Science. The college also has technological facilities which include audio-video, telemedicine, electronic assessment. Library The UCMS houses a central library and 17 departmental libraries with a large volume of teaching and learning resources, which support teaching, research and extension programs of the college. There are over 16,000 books and WHO publications, 18,000 volumes of journals, and 400 theses. Hostel There are two hostels, one each for boys and girls. There are also some other residential buildings on the campus for staff and other members. Departments There are twenty-one departments at the college: Anaesthesiology, Anatomy, Biochemistry, Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, Community Medicine, Dentistry, Dermatology, Forensic Medicine, Medicine, Microbiology and Gynaecology, Ophthalmology, Orthopaedics, Otorhinolaryngology, Paediatrics, Pathology, Pharmacology, Physiology, Psychiatry, Radiology, Surgery. Notable people Notable alumni Palash Sen, an Indian singer and founder of India's Rock band Euphoria. Mahesh Sharma, an Indian politician from Bharatiya Janata Party who is currently Minister of State for Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change as well as Culture Sujoy K. Guha , an Indian biomedical scientist, Inventor of RISUG, the first reversible male contraceptive. Batch of 1979 Ashish Suri , an Indian neurosurgeon, medical academic, and a professor at the Department of Neurosurgery of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi . He was one of the group of surgeons who performed the first 3D brain surgery and the first surgery to implant a spinal cord stimulator in India. Awarded the Padma Shri. Anil Aggrawal, professor and Head of Forensic medicine and Toxicology at MAMC. Sanjay Asthana, chief of the division of Geriatrics and Gerontology at the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, and holds the Duncan G. and Lottie H. Ballantine Endowed Chair in Geriatrics. Raman Kapur, acupuncturist and awarded the Padma Shri. Rahul Gupta, director for the Office of National Drug Control Policy of the United States. Nominated by President Joe Biden. Notable faculty Autar Singh Paintal, a renowned cardiopulmonary scientist known for his discoveries of several sensory receptors. He was the first Principal of University College of Medical Sciences and second Director of Vallabhbhai Patel Chest Institute and sixth Director General of the Indian Council of Medical Research . Awarded the Padma Vibhushan. Dr Satendra Singh is a champion of disability rights and a recipient of the President's National Award and Henry Viscardi Achievement Awards given to global leaders. References External links Official website Health has a variety of definitions, which have been used for different purposes over time. Health can be promoted by encouraging healthful activities, such as regular physical exercise and adequate sleep, and by reducing or avoiding unhealthful activities or situations, such as smoking or excessive stress. Some factors affecting health are due to individual choices, such as whether to engage in a high-risk behavior, while others are due to structural causes, such as whether the society is arranged in a way that makes it easier or harder for people to get necessary healthcare services. Still, other factors are beyond both individual and group choices, such as genetic disorders. History The meaning of health has evolved over time. In keeping with the biomedical perspective, early definitions of health focused on the theme of the body's ability to function; health was seen as a state of normal function that could be disrupted from time to time by disease. An example of such a definition of health is: a state characterized by anatomic, physiologic, and psychological integrity; ability to perform personally valued family, work, and community roles; ability to deal with physical, biological, psychological, and social stress. Then, in 1948, in a radical departure from previous definitions, the World Health Organization (WHO) proposed a definition that aimed higher, linking health to well-being, in terms of physical, mental, and social well-being, and not merely the absence of disease and infirmity. Although this definition was welcomed by some as being innovative, it was also criticized for being vague and excessively broad and was not construed as measurable. For a long time, it was set aside as an impractical ideal, with most discussions of health returning to the practicality of the biomedical model.Just as there was a shift from viewing disease as a state to thinking of it as a process, the same shift happened in definitions of health. Again, the WHO played a leading role when it fostered the development of the health promotion movement in the 1980s. This brought in a new conception of health, not as a state, but in dynamic terms of resiliency, in other words, as a resource for living. In 1984, WHO revised the definition of health defined it as the extent to which an individual or group is able to realize aspirations and satisfy needs and to change or cope with the environment. Health is a resource for everyday life, not the objective of living; it is a positive concept, emphasizing social and personal resources, as well as physical capacities. Thus, health referred to the ability to maintain homeostasis and recover from adverse events. Mental, intellectual, emotional and social health referred to a person's ability to handle stress, to acquire skills, to maintain relationships, all of which form resources for resiliency and independent living. This opens up many possibilities for health to be taught, strengthened and learned. Since the late 1970s, the federal Healthy People Program has been a visible component of the United States' approach to improving population health. In each decade, a new version of Healthy People is issued, featuring updated goals and identifying topic areas and quantifiable objectives for health improvement during the succeeding ten years, with assessment at that point of progress or lack thereof. Progress has been limited to many objectives, leading to concerns about the effectiveness of Healthy People in shaping outcomes in the context of a decentralized and uncoordinated US health system. Healthy People 2020 gives more prominence to health promotion and preventive approaches and adds a substantive focus on the importance of addressing social determinants of health. A new expanded digital interface facilitates use and dissemination rather than bulky printed books as produced in the past. The impact of these changes to Healthy People will be determined in the coming years.Systematic activities to prevent or cure health problems and promote good health in humans are undertaken by health care providers. Applications with regard to animal health are covered by the veterinary sciences. The term healthy is also widely used in the context of many types of non-living organizations and their impacts for the benefit of humans, such as in the sense of healthy communities, healthy cities or healthy environments. In addition to health care interventions and a person's surroundings, a number of other factors are known to influence the health status of individuals. These are referred to as the determinants of health, which include the individual's background, lifestyle, economic status, social conditions and spirituality; Studies have shown that high levels of stress can affect human health.In the first decade of the 21st century, the conceptualization of health as an ability opened the door for self-assessments to become the main indicators to judge the performance of efforts aimed at improving human health. It also created the opportunity for every person to feel healthy, even in the presence of multiple chronic diseases or a terminal condition, and for the re-examination of determinants of health (away from the traditional approach that focuses on the reduction of the prevalence of diseases). Determinants In general, the context in which an individual lives is of great importance for both his health status and quality of life. It is increasingly recognized that health is maintained and improved not only through the advancement and application of health science, but also through the efforts and intelligent lifestyle choices of the individual and society. According to the World Health Organization, the main determinants of health include the social and economic environment, the physical environment, and the person's individual characteristics and behaviors.More specifically, key factors that have been found to influence whether people are healthy or unhealthy include the following: An increasing number of studies and reports from different organizations and contexts examine the linkages between health and different factors, including lifestyles, environments, health care organization and health policy, one specific health policy brought into many countries in recent years was the introduction of the sugar tax. Beverage taxes came into light with increasing concerns about obesity, particularly among youth. Sugar-sweetened beverages have become a target of anti-obesity initiatives with increasing evidence of their link to obesity.—such as the 1974 Lalonde report from Canada; the Alameda County Study in California; and the series of World Health Reports of the World Health Organization, which focuses on global health issues including access to health care and improving public health outcomes, especially in developing countries.The concept of the health field, as distinct from medical care, emerged from the Lalonde report from Canada. The report identified three interdependent fields as key determinants of an individual's health. These are: Biomedical: all aspects of health, physical and mental, developed within the human body as influenced by genetic make-up. Environmental: all matters related to health external to the human body and over which the individual has little or no control; Lifestyle: the aggregation of personal decisions (i.e., over which the individual has control) that can be said to contribute to, or cause, illness or death;The maintenance and promotion of health is achieved through different combination of physical, mental, and social well-being—a combination sometimes referred to as the health triangle. The WHO's 1986 Ottawa Charter for Health Promotion further stated that health is not just a state, but also a resource for everyday life, not the objective of living. Health is a positive concept emphasizing social and personal resources, as well as physical capacities.Focusing more on lifestyle issues and their relationships with functional health, data from the Alameda County Study suggested that people can improve their health via exercise, enough sleep, spending time in nature, maintaining a healthy body weight, limiting alcohol use, and avoiding smoking. Health and illness can co-exist, as even people with multiple chronic diseases or terminal illnesses can consider themselves healthy. If you want to learn about the health of a population, look at the air they breathe, the water they drink, and the places where they live. The environment is often cited as an important factor influencing the health status of individuals. This includes characteristics of the natural environment, the built environment and the social environment. Factors such as clean water and air, adequate housing, and safe communities and roads all have been found to contribute to good health, especially to the health of infants and children. Some studies have shown that a lack of neighborhood recreational spaces including natural environment leads to lower levels of personal satisfaction and higher levels of obesity, linked to lower overall health and well-being. It has been demonstrated that increased time spent in natural environments is associated with improved self-reported health, suggesting that the positive health benefits of natural space in urban neighborhoods should be taken into account in public policy and land use. Genetics, or inherited traits from parents, also play a role in determining the health status of individuals and populations. This can encompass both the predisposition to certain diseases and health conditions, as well as the habits and behaviors individuals develop through the lifestyle of their families. For example, genetics may play a role in the manner in which people cope with stress, either mental, emotional or physical. For example, obesity is a significant problem in the United States that contributes to poor mental health and causes stress in the lives of many people. One difficulty is the issue raised by the debate over the relative strengths of genetics and other factors; interactions between genetics and environment may be of particular importance. Potential issues A number of health issues are common around the globe. Disease is one of the most common. According to GlobalIssues.org, approximately 36 million people die each year from non-communicable (i.e., not contagious) diseases, including cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes and chronic lung disease.Among communicable diseases, both viral and bacterial, AIDS/HIV, tuberculosis, and malaria are the most common, causing millions of deaths every year.Another health issue that causes death or contributes to other health problems is malnutrition, especially among children. One of the groups malnutrition affects most is young children. Approximately 7.5 million children under the age of 5 die from malnutrition, usually brought on by not having the money to find or make food.Bodily injuries are also a common health issue worldwide. These injuries, including bone fractures and burns, can reduce a person's quality of life or can cause fatalities including infections that resulted from the injury (or the severity injury in general).Lifestyle choices are contributing factors to poor health in many cases. These include smoking cigarettes, and can also include a poor diet, whether it is overeating or an overly constrictive diet. Inactivity can also contribute to health issues and also a lack of sleep, excessive alcohol consumption, and neglect of oral hygiene. There are also genetic disorders that are inherited by the person and can vary in how much they affect the person (and when they surface).Although the majority of these health issues are preventable, a major contributor to global ill health is the fact that approximately 1 billion people lack access to health care systems. Arguably, the most common and harmful health issue is that a great many people do not have access to quality remedies. Mental health The World Health Organization describes mental health as a state of well-being in which the individual realizes his or her own abilities, can cope with the normal stresses of life, can work productively and fruitfully, and is able to make a contribution to his or her community. Mental health is not just the absence of mental illness.Mental illness is described as 'the spectrum of cognitive, emotional, and behavioral conditions that interfere with social and emotional well-being and the lives and productivity of people. Having a mental illness can seriously impair, temporarily or permanently, the mental functioning of a person. Other terms include: 'mental health problem', 'illness', 'disorder', 'dysfunction'.Approximately twenty percent of all adults in the US are considered diagnosable with a mental disorder. Mental disorders are the leading cause of disability in the United States and Canada. Examples of these disorders include schizophrenia, ADHD, major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, anxiety disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder and autism. Many factors contribute to mental health problems, including: Biological factors, such as genes or brain chemistry Family history of mental health problems Life experiences, such as trauma or abuse Maintaining Achieving and maintaining health is an ongoing process, shaped by both the evolution of health care knowledge and practices as well as personal strategies and organized interventions for staying healthy. Diet An important way to maintain one's personal health is to have a healthy diet. A healthy diet includes a variety of plant-based and animal-based foods that provide nutrients to the body. Such nutrients provide the body with energy and keep it running. Nutrients help build and strengthen bones, muscles, and tendons and also regulate body processes (i.e., blood pressure). Water is essential for growth, reproduction and good health. Macronutrients are consumed in relatively large quantities and include proteins, carbohydrates, and fats and fatty acids. Micronutrients – vitamins and minerals – are consumed in relatively smaller quantities, but are essential to body processes. The food guide pyramid is a pyramid-shaped guide of healthy foods divided into sections. Each section shows the recommended intake for each food group (i.e., protein, fat, carbohydrates and sugars). Making healthy food choices can lower one's risk of heart disease and the risk of developing some types of cancer, and can help one maintain their weight within a healthy range.The Mediterranean diet is commonly associated with health-promoting effects. This is sometimes attributed to the inclusion of bioactive compounds such as phenolic compounds, isoprenoids and alkaloids. Exercise Physical exercise enhances or maintains physical fitness and overall health and wellness. It strengthens one's bones and muscles and improves the cardiovascular system. According to the National Institutes of Health, there are four types of exercise: endurance, strength, flexibility, and balance. The CDC states that physical exercise can reduce the risks of heart disease, cancer, type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity, depression, and anxiety. For the purpose of counteracting possible risks, it is often recommended to start physical exercise gradually as one goes. Participating in any exercising, whether it is housework, yardwork, walking or standing up when talking on the phone, is often thought to be better than none when it comes to health. Sleep Sleep is an essential component to maintaining health. In children, sleep is also vital for growth and development. Ongoing sleep deprivation has been linked to an increased risk for some chronic health problems. In addition, sleep deprivation has been shown to correlate with both increased susceptibility to illness and slower recovery times from illness. In one study, people with chronic insufficient sleep, set as six hours of sleep a night or less, were found to be four times more likely to catch a cold compared to those who reported sleeping for seven hours or more a night. Due to the role of sleep in regulating metabolism, insufficient sleep may also play a role in weight gain or, conversely, in impeding weight loss. Additionally, in 2007, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, which is the cancer research agency for the World Health Organization, declared that shiftwork that involves circadian disruption is probably carcinogenic to humans, speaking to the dangers of long-term nighttime work due to its intrusion on sleep. In 2015, the National Sleep Foundation released updated recommendations for sleep duration requirements based on age, and concluded that Individuals who habitually sleep outside the normal range may be exhibiting signs or symptoms of serious health problems or, if done volitionally, may be compromising their health and well-being. Role of science Health science is the branch of science focused on health. There are two main approaches to health science: the study and research of the body and health-related issues to understand how humans (and animals) function, and the application of that knowledge to improve health and to prevent and cure diseases and other physical and mental impairments. The science builds on many sub-fields, including biology, biochemistry, physics, epidemiology, pharmacology, medical sociology. Applied health sciences endeavor to better understand and improve human health through applications in areas such as health education, biomedical engineering, biotechnology and public health.Organized interventions to improve health based on the principles and procedures developed through the health sciences are provided by practitioners trained in medicine, nursing, nutrition, pharmacy, social work, psychology, occupational therapy, physical therapy and other health care professions. Clinical practitioners focus mainly on the health of individuals, while public health practitioners consider the overall health of communities and populations. Workplace wellness programs are increasingly being adopted by companies for their value in improving the health and well-being of their employees, as are school health services to improve the health and well-being of children. Role of medicine and medical science Contemporary medicine is in general conducted within health care systems. Legal, credentialing and financing frameworks are established by individual governments, augmented on occasion by international organizations, such as churches. The characteristics of any given health care system have significant impact on the way medical care is provided. From ancient times, Christian emphasis on practical charity gave rise to the development of systematic nursing and hospitals and the Catholic Church today remains the largest non-government provider of medical services in the world. Advanced industrial countries (with the exception of the United States) and many developing countries provide medical services through a system of universal health care that aims to guarantee care for all through a single-payer health care system, or compulsory private or co-operative health insurance. This is intended to ensure that the entire population has access to medical care on the basis of need rather than ability to pay. Delivery may be via private medical practices or by state-owned hospitals and clinics, or by charities, most commonly by a combination of all three. Most tribal societies provide no guarantee of healthcare for the population as a whole. In such societies, healthcare is available to those that can afford to pay for it or have self-insured it (either directly or as part of an employment contract) or who may be covered by care financed by the government or tribe directly. Transparency of information is another factor defining a delivery system. Access to information on conditions, treatments, quality, and pricing greatly affects the choice by patients/consumers and, therefore, the incentives of medical professionals. While the US healthcare system has come under fire for lack of openness, new legislation may encourage greater openness. There is a perceived tension between the need for transparency on the one hand and such issues as patient confidentiality and the possible exploitation of information for commercial gain on the other. Delivery Provision of medical care is classified into primary, secondary, and tertiary care categories. Primary care medical services are provided by physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, or other health professionals who have first contact with a patient seeking medical treatment or care. These occur in physician offices, clinics, nursing homes, schools, home visits, and other places close to patients. About 90% of medical visits can be treated by the primary care provider. These include treatment of acute and chronic illnesses, preventive care and health education for all ages and both sexes. Secondary care medical services are provided by medical specialists in their offices or clinics or at local community hospitals for a patient referred by a primary care provider who first diagnosed or treated the patient. Referrals are made for those patients who required the expertise or procedures performed by specialists. These include both ambulatory care and inpatient services, Emergency departments, intensive care medicine, surgery services, physical therapy, labor and delivery, endoscopy units, diagnostic laboratory and medical imaging services, hospice centers, etc. Some primary care providers may also take care of hospitalized patients and deliver babies in a secondary care setting. Tertiary care medical services are provided by specialist hospitals or regional centers equipped with diagnostic and treatment facilities not generally available at local hospitals. These include trauma centers, burn treatment centers, advanced neonatology unit services, organ transplants, high-risk pregnancy, radiation oncology, etc. Modern medical care also depends on information – still delivered in many health care settings on paper records, but increasingly nowadays by electronic means. In low-income countries, modern healthcare is often too expensive for the average person. International healthcare policy researchers have advocated that user fees be removed in these areas to ensure access, although even after removal, significant costs and barriers remain.Separation of prescribing and dispensing is a practice in medicine and pharmacy in which the physician who provides a medical prescription is independent from the pharmacist who provides the prescription drug. In the Western world there are centuries of tradition for separating pharmacists from physicians. In Asian countries, it is traditional for physicians to also provide drugs. Role of public health Public health has been described as the science and art of preventing disease, prolonging life and promoting health through the organized efforts and informed choices of society, organizations, public and private, communities and individuals. It is concerned with threats to the overall health of a community based on population health analysis. The population in question can be as small as a handful of people or as large as all the inhabitants of several continents (for instance, in the case of a pandemic). Public health has many sub-fields, but typically includes the interdisciplinary categories of epidemiology, biostatistics and health services. environmental health, community health, behavioral health, and occupational health are also important areas of public health. The focus of public health interventions is to prevent and manage diseases, injuries and other health conditions through surveillance of cases and the promotion of healthy behavior, communities, and (in aspects relevant to human health) environments. Its aim is to prevent health problems from happening or re-occurring by implementing educational programs, developing policies, administering services and conducting research. In many cases, treating a disease or controlling a pathogen can be vital to preventing it in others, such as during an outbreak. Vaccination programs and distribution of condoms to prevent the spread of communicable diseases are examples of common preventive public health measures, as are educational campaigns to promote vaccination and the use of condoms (including overcoming resistance to such). Public health also takes various actions to limit the health disparities between different areas of the country and, in some cases, the continent or world. One issue is the access of individuals and communities to health care in terms of financial, geographical or socio-cultural constraints. Applications of the public health system include the areas of maternal and child health, health services administration, emergency response, and prevention and control of infectious and chronic diseases. The great positive impact of public health programs is widely acknowledged. Due in part to the policies and actions developed through public health, the 20th century registered a decrease in the mortality rates for infants and children and a continual increase in life expectancy in most parts of the world. For example, it is estimated that life expectancy has increased for Americans by thirty years since 1900, and worldwide by six years since 1990. Self-care strategies Personal health depends partially on the active, passive, and assisted cues people observe and adopt about their own health. These include personal actions for preventing or minimizing the effects of a disease, usually a chronic condition, through integrative care. They also include personal hygiene practices to prevent infection and illness, such as bathing and washing hands with soap; brushing and flossing teeth; storing, preparing and handling food safely; and many others. The information gleaned from personal observations of daily living – such as about sleep patterns, exercise behavior, nutritional intake and environmental features – may be used to inform personal decisions and actions (e.g., I feel tired in the morning so I am going to try sleeping on a different pillow), as well as clinical decisions and treatment plans (e.g., a patient who notices his or her shoes are tighter than usual may be having exacerbation of left-sided heart failure, and may require diuretic medication to reduce fluid overload).Personal health also depends partially on the social structure of a person's life. The maintenance of strong social relationships, volunteering, and other social activities have been linked to positive mental health and also increased longevity. One American study among seniors over age 70, found that frequent volunteering was associated with reduced risk of dying compared with older persons who did not volunteer, regardless of physical health status. Another study from Singapore reported that volunteering retirees had significantly better cognitive performance scores, fewer depressive symptoms, and better mental well-being and life satisfaction than non-volunteering retirees.Prolonged psychological stress may negatively impact health, and has been cited as a factor in cognitive impairment with aging, depressive illness, and expression of disease. Stress management is the application of methods to either reduce stress or increase tolerance to stress. Relaxation techniques are physical methods used to relieve stress. Psychological methods include cognitive therapy, meditation, and positive thinking, which work by reducing response to stress. Improving relevant skills, such as problem solving and time management skills, reduces uncertainty and builds confidence, which also reduces the reaction to stress-causing situations where those skills are applicable. Occupational In addition to safety risks, many jobs also present risks of disease, illness and other long-term health problems. Among the most common occupational diseases are various forms of pneumoconiosis, including silicosis and coal worker's pneumoconiosis (black lung disease). Asthma is another respiratory illness that many workers are vulnerable to. Workers may also be vulnerable to skin diseases, including eczema, dermatitis, urticaria, sunburn, and skin cancer. Other occupational diseases of concern include carpal tunnel syndrome and lead poisoning. As the number of service sector jobs has risen in developed countries, more and more jobs have become sedentary, presenting a different array of health problems than those associated with manufacturing and the primary sector. Contemporary problems, such as the growing rate of obesity and issues relating to stress and overwork in many countries, have further complicated the interaction between work and health. Many governments view occupational health as a social challenge and have formed public organizations to ensure the health and safety of workers. Examples of these include the British Health and Safety Executive and in the United States, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, which conducts research on occupational health and safety, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, which handles regulation and policy relating to worker safety and health. See also Disease burden – Impact of diseases Environmental health – Public health branch focused on environmental impacts on human health Healing – Process of the restoration of health Health equity – Study and causes of differences in the quality of health and healthcare Human enhancement – Natural, artificial, or technological alteration of the human body List of health and wellness podcasts Men's health – physical, mental, and social well-being, as experienced by menPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback One Health – collaborative global initiative to attain optimal health for people, animals and the environmentPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback Population health – Health outcomes of a group of individuals Women's health – Broad subject that encompasses all facets of women's health Youth health – range of approaches to preventing, detecting or treating young people’s health risks and issuesPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback References External links Media related to Health at Wikimedia Commons Deccan College of Medical Science (DCMS) is a medical school situated in Hyderabad, India offering the courses MBBS, postgraduate degree / diploma and superspeciality courses. It has an approved intake of 150 MBBS seats annually. The college is affiliated to the KNR University of Health Sciences, Warangal from the academic year 2016-17 onwards. It was earlier affiliated to Dr. N. T. R. University of Health Sciences, Vijayawada. It is recognized by the Medical Council of India. It follows the syllabus prescribed by the University for MBBS course as mandated by Medical Council of India. The management observes such rules, regulation or orders which are applicable to minority institution without violating the rights conferred under Article 30(1) of the constitution of India. The management Deccan College of Medical Sciences is established and administered by Muslim Minority Trust, i.e., Dar-us-salam Educational Trust under the provision of Article 30(1) of the constitution of India. Dar-us-Salam Educational Trust is an autonomous body with Asaduddin Owaisi as its chairman and Akbaruddin Owaisi as Managing Director. The college is administered by the chief administrator Dr. (Colonel) G. K. N. Prasad. Dr. Ashfaq Hasan is the principal and also the Professor of the department of Respiratory Medicine. Dar-us-Salam Educational Trust Dar-us-Salam Educational Trust (DET) was established in 1974 as a self-financing minority institution under the chairmanship of Late Sultan Salahuddin Owaisi (ex Member of Parliament, India). After the death of Late Sultan Salahuddin Owaisi the trust is now headed by Asaduddin Owaisi. The building The college is situated at Nawab Lutf ud Daula Palace, Zafargarh, Kanchanbagh near Santoshnagar. Attached to the college there is a seven-storey hospital: The college occupies an area of 66,070 sq ft (6,138 m2) built-in area with adjacent open space of approximate 16 acres (65,000 m2) for further expansion. It has an Indoor sports complex, cricket ground, basketball court.The hospital building houses the Nursing and the Physiotherapy colleges. In the cellar of the hospital building, Department of Hospital Management, Deccan School of Management is located. Department of Hospital management offers Masters in Hospital management (M.H.M ), which is affiliated to Osmania University and approved by AICTE. Library The college has a central library in addition to departmental libraries. As of 2018, it contains over 30,000 textbooks and reference books; and 130 print journals subscribed in 2018. Courses offered Graduate degrees Postgraduate diplomas Postgraduate degrees Superspeciality degrees Alumni Deccan Alumni Association Deccan Alumni Association of North America See also List of Medical Schools in India Center For Stem Cell Science, Hyderabad References External links Deccan College of Medical Sciences - Official site Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) is a medical Institute under the State Legislature Act in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, 14 km (8.7 mi) south of Hazratganj on Raebareli Road. It was established in 1983 and is named after Sanjay Gandhi. Overview The institute is located on 550 acres (2.2 km2) residential campus on Raebareli Road. The institute offers degrees recognized by the Medical Council of India. It provides tertiary-level medical care, teaching, training, and research for specialties. Degrees at the DM, MCh, MD, and Ph.D. levels are offered, along with postdoctoral fellowships and postdoctoral certificate courses in various disciplines. Offers training programs for senior residents. The College of Medical Technology offers B.Sc. courses in nursing and BSc/MSc courses in paramedical technology in allied sciences. The institute is an autonomous institution. The institute functions as a state college is a member of the Association of Indian Universities, and is recognized by the College Grants Commission. The institute employs over 250 faculty members across 32 departments. Each department consists of teaching, training, patient care, and research. The Director is Professor R.K. Dhiman, and the Dean is Professor S.P. Ambesh. In 1997, SGPGI was among the first government hospitals in India to implement the Oracle-based HIS system. In 2019 the HIS was updated to be fully integrated with the PAX and telemedicine network. The UP state government-owned SGPGI hospital is located nearly 1 km (0.62 mi) from the institute. Notable people Notable alumni Amita Aggarwal, DM (1993) Ashutosh Tewari, MCh (1994) Kanneboyina Nagaraju, Ph.D. (1995) Harish Poptani, Ph.D. (1995) Ramakant Yadav, DM (2006) Notable faculty Shyam Swarup Agarwal Rakesh Aggarwal Mahendra Bhandari Sita Naik Sunil Pradhan Rajan Saxena Amita AggarwalSP Ambesh See also References External links https://sgpgims.org.in/ The School of Medical Science and Technology (SMST) is an educational and research institute affiliated to the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, India. Founded in 2001, the School of Medical Science and Technology brings together doctors, scientists and engineers to work collaboratively on projects for better healthcare. The school offers the following courses: Master of Medical Science & Technology (MMST), M.Tech. in Medical Imaging and Informatics, M.Tech. in Biomedical Engineering, M.Sc.in Medical Physics, M.Sc. in Nuclear Medicine, M.Sc. in Medical Molecular Microbiology and PhD Programs. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has described SMST as an innovative model which integrates the two diverse disciplines of engineering and medicine and signals new directions in medical education and healthcare delivery. Location The school resides in the third and fourth floors of the Life Science Building, IIT Kharagpur. The institute is about 5 km from the Kharagpur railway station. History The School of Medical Science and Technology (SMST), IIT Kharagpur, was started in 2001 to provide a platform of interdisciplinary teaching and research in the field of medical science and technology. The school began with a 3-year program to train doctors in the engineering aspects of medicine followed by a year of hands-on training. This was followed by a PhD program for research in medical technology. Later addressing the needs of graduate students, the school introduced masters programs in Medical Imaging & Informatics and Biomedical Engineering. While addressing the 57th Annual Convocation and Launching of Diamond Jubilee of IIT, Kharagpur in August 2011, Prime Minister Singh said: The School of Medical Science and Technology at IIT Kharagpur has done good work in Medical Biotechnology and Biomedical Engineering. It has sought to produce a new breed of doctors who are highly technology savvy, skilled in e-health monitoring, e-medical recording, tele-diagnostics, tele-surgery and tele-medicine. Academics The courses offered by the institute are: Masters in Medical Science and Technology (MMST) The school runs a master's degree in Medical Science and Technology, a three-year postgraduate course specially designed for M.B.B.S. graduates to train them in clinical research and medicine. The aim is to provide a platform for interdisciplinary teaching and research in the field of medicine and clinical research which can lead to a better integrated healthcare delivery system. Students spend first two years in doing various course works in medicine and clinical research etc.). The last year of course is reserved for internal or external training either in India or abroad on actual research projects. The students of MMST also serve as hospitalists at BC Roy Technology Hospital, a hospital with Intensive Care Unit and housing research labs for Medical Imaging, Instrumentation and Telemedicine, clinical exposure provides in the clinical acumen the student for interdisciplinary research. The students are exposed to all kinds of imaging modalities – microscopic and macroscopic – and will work on advanced image processing systems. This program imparts engineering skills to medical professionals and train them for the state-of-the-art medical research in frontier areas of Medical Imaging, Molecular Imaging and Image Analysis, Biomaterials and Implants, Biophysics, Medical Statistics, Telemedicine, Biomedical Instrumentation, Early Detection of Cancer, Immuno-technology, Recombinant DNA Technology, Biomedical Simulation, Wound research and so on. MTech in Medical Imaging and Informatics The school offers a master's degree in Medical Imaging and Informatics, a two-year postgraduate course specially designed for BTech/B.E (Electrical, Electronics, Instrumentation). From 2022, the M.Tech. program in Medical Imaging and Informatics is offered jointly with the department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Kharagpur. The aim of the course is to provide knowledge to design CAD (computer aided diagnostics) system. During their first year students undergo course work, to name a few; PIMI (Physics and Instrumentation in Medical Imaging instruments like ultra-sound, C.T, MRI, etc. ), Digital Image processing, BioStatistics, MEMS, Pattern Recognition and Machine Intelligence in Medicine, Computer vision, Medical Image Analysis. Second-year students have options to do projects such as DAAD IIT Master Sandwich, internship in MNC, be a part of selective ongoing projects, etc. This program helps students to apply their technical skills to assist repetitive work, reduce time requirement and improve the efficiency in the line of diagnosis under multiple medical imaging modalities. The MTech students will be exposed to different aspects of translational health research which will include medical imaging and advanced image processing systems, biomedical signal processing BioMEMS and sensors, Biomedical Instrumentation, Embedded systems, Microfluidics and point-of-care diagnostics, Biostatistics, Biomaterials, Regenerative Medicine, Cancer research, Cardiovascular research, Immunology and Immunotherapeutics, Biomarker Discovery, Herbal medicine, Clinical and Epidemiological research and Molecular virology research. MTech in Biomedical Engineering The school recently introduced master's degree programs in Biomedical Engineering. PhD in Medical Science and Technology The school offers PhD programs in the areas of core medical science, interdisciplinary medical science fusing engineering methodologies. Admissions Masters in Medical Science and Technology (MMST) The eligibility criterion for admission to MMST course is the MBBS degree from a medical college recognized by Medical Council of India (MCI) with a minimum of 55% marks in aggregate and having studied mathematics at +2 level (even as additional subject) or from any recognized Open University. Seats are reserved for backward class candidates and persons with disability as per Govt. of India rules. Few seats are also reserved for Armed forces personnel. The final selection is strictly based on an objective type of entrance test conducted by the Gate, IIT. The test includes objective questions from medical domain as well as from +2 level Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics. The entrance test is conducted annually, in the month of April at Kolkata (IIT Kharagpur extension campus). Candidates qualifying in the admission test are called for counselling at IIT Kharagpur before final selection. MTech in Medical Imaging and Informatics Admission for Medical Imaging and Informatics is through GATE (EE, EC, IN, BM, CS) score and happens in summer of every year. MTech in Biomedical Engineering Admission for Biomedical Engineering is through GATE (BM) score and happens in summer of every year. Laboratories and facilities The students at SMST have access to some of the finest infrastructure available in the country for interdisciplinary research and development activities, some of which are:Names of the Laboratories: Bio-MEMS Lab Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering Lab Biostatistics and Medical Informatics Lab Cancer Biology Lab Epidemiology and Public Health Lab Herbal Medicine lab Medical Instrumentation and Embedded Systems Lab Multimodal Imaging and Computing for Theranostics Reproductive Health LabApart from these facilities, students have access to research labs of other departments and shared facilities at Central Research Facility (CRF) center of IIT Kharagpur. Collaborations and associated laboratories The School of Medical Science and Technology is an interdisciplinary research department. Hence it works in close association with other departments at IIT, Kharagpur such as the Department of BioTechnology, and the Departments of Material Sciences, Physics and Meteorology, Mathematics and Statistics, Electronics and Communication, Computer Science and Mechanical Engineering. SMST is also in close association with the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Department of BioTechnology (DBT) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for research activities. The school has collaborations with many institutions and centres of excellence throughout the globe. Some of these international collaborations are: Brain Science Institute, RIKEN, JapanCorporate collaborations include Texas Instruments (USA), Siemens (India) and Phillips Electronics India Ltd, Bosch India etc. Products and patents The research team in the SMST is working on development of a low cost total artificial heart (TAH) since last 4 years. The initial experiments on goats have shown promising results. The research team is waiting for the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approval for human trials, which will be conducted at the Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata. This artificial heart will have significant cost advantages over the USA-made artificial hearts.A notable example of a successful research project in collaboration with other universities is the Reversible inhibition of sperm under guidance (RISUG) — a novel reversible male contraceptive developed at SMST. Future plans The institute is planning to set up a 400-bedded state-of-the-art medical hospital and research center at the campus with a vision of becoming a center of excellence for interdisciplinary research in medical domain. A foundation stone for this medical research center was laid in 2007 by the then President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. The institute signed a $50-million MoU with the University of California, San Diego in 2009 for this purpose. This project got delayed because of the provisions of IIT act 1961, which prohibits IITs from entering into fields like medicine and tussling between different government ministries. The institute was in constant touch with the Ministry of Human Resource Development and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to amend the IIT Act to give IITs autonomy to offer medical courses as well. Finally, the Parliament passed the Institute of Technology (Amendment) Bill, 2010, in April 2012. IIT is also in discussion with the Medical Council of India for this project. In June 2012, IIT received fund of Rs 230 crore through a central grant for establishing the Medical school. A 45-acre plot has been earmarked by IIT Kharagpur for what promises to be a modern green building with minimal energy consumption and advance facilities.Once this medical hospital and teaching institute starts functioning, the institute will offer MCI approved courses for MBBS, MD, MS and DM. The institute, in association with the University of California and Johns Hopkins University, will develop a teaching module which will comprise elements of modelling, simulation and virtual reality in-addition to conventional medical wisdom to produce a new breed of tech-savvy doctors. In the first phase, the main focus will be on postgraduate courses. The number of beds would later be increased to 750. See also Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur Dr B C Roy Institute of Medical Science & Research References External links SMST official site Degree official site IIT Kharagpur The Academy of Medical Sciences is an organisation established in the UK in 1998. It is one of the four UK National Academies, the others being the British Academy, the Royal Academy of Engineering and the Royal Society.Its mission is to advance biomedical and health research and its translation into benefits for society. The academy consists of a group of around 1200 Fellows elected from fields across the biomedical sciences. The academy seeks ultimately to advance medical science and improve health by investing in talented researchers, engaging people on health-related issues and providing expert impartial advice. As of December 2020 its president is Dame Anne Johnson. History The academy was established in 1998 following the recommendations of a working group chaired by Michael Atiyah, former president of the Royal Society. A single national organisation was formed to support biomedical scientists and clinical academics working together to promote advances in medical science. It is one of the four learned academies in the United Kingdom, with the Royal Society, Royal Academy of Engineering and British Academy. The intention of the founders was to create a national resource outside the framework of Government, with the expertise and authority to deal with scientific and societal aspects of public policy issues in healthcare.The formation of the academy occurred against a backdrop of increasing fragmentation and specialisation within the medical profession. The academy merged with the Novartis Foundation in 2008, and moved to a dedicated headquarters building at 41 Portland Place in October 2010. This building provides office space for its 39 members of staff, and has rooms for events and conferences. Activities Policy Areas of policy work originate from within the Academy Council and wider Fellowship, and in response to consultations from the government, Parliament and other relevant bodies. As of 2017 work included reports on improving public health by 2040, using animals in research, diabetes and obesity, the use of data in medical research and the use of non-human primates in research. Careers The academy's National Mentoring and Outreach Scheme was established in 2002 and is supported by the UK Department of Health, the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) and NHS Education for Scotland. The programme provides one-to-one mentoring by Academy Fellows for Clinical Lecturers and Clinician Scientist Fellows. It also offers activities for Academic Clinical Fellows, Clinical Training Fellows and MB PhD students. Grants The academy's funding schemes focus on areas of specific and specialist need, addressing perceived shortages within key speciality areas, and international collaboration. Schemes include Clinician Scientist Fellowships, Starter Grants for Clinical Lecturers and UK/Middle East Exchange Fellowships. Public engagement and dialogue The academy's public events demonstrate recent research and provide a platform for discussion of the latest science. Linking academia and industry The academy's FORUM brings together biomedical scientists from academia and industry. As well as hosting its own conferences and events the academy has made its headquarters at 41 Portland Place available on a private hire basis for industry and commercial events and conferences. Fellowship As of August 2017, the academy has around 1200 Fellows drawn from fundamental biological sciences, clinical academic medicine, public and population health, health technology implementation, veterinary science, dentistry, medical and nursing care and other professions allied to medical science as well as the basic fundamental mathematics, chemistry, physics, engineering, ethics, social science and the law. The Fellowship represents a national resource in medical science, offering their time and expertise to support the academy's work.Up to 48 new Fellows are elected to the academy each year. Eight Sectional Committees spanning the range of medical sciences scrutinise candidates and make recommendations to Council for election. Becoming a Fellow indicates that the academy judges individuals to have made outstanding contributions...to the progress of medical science and the development of better healthcare. Election is often described as prestigious.Honorary Fellows include: Chen Zhu Minister of Health, Ministry of Health, China; Sydney Brenner, Distinguished Professor, Salk Institute; François Gros, Permanent Secretary of ‘Académie des Sciences’, Institut de France; William Castell LVO FCA, President & CEO, GE Healthcare; Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi Director, Unité de Régulation des Infections Rétrovirales, Institut Pasteur and Nobel Laureate; Sir Andrew Witty Chief Executive Officer, GSK.Some of its members are retired and are no longer active in research. List of presidents 1998–2002 Peter Lachmann (University of Cambridge) 2002–2006 Keith Peters (University of Cambridge) 2006–2011 John Irving Bell (University of Oxford) 2011–2015 John Tooke (University College London) 2015–2020 Sir Robert Lechler (King's College London) 2020 onward Dame Anne Johnson (University College London) Honours The Academy of Medical Sciences presents numerous awards and lectures and medals to recognise significant achievements within the field of medical science. See also Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences Category:Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences (United Kingdom) Royal Society UK Young Academy References External links Official website University of Medical Sciences, Ondo (UNIMED) is a university of medical sciences in Ondo City, Nigeria, owned by the Ondo State Government, established in 2015. It is the third specialized medical university in Africa and Nigeria's first specialized medical university to be accredited by the National Universities Commission.The current Vice Chancellor of the University of Medical Sciences Ondo is Professor Adesegun Fatusi FAS, a professor of public health and community medicine. The pioneer vice chancellor of the university is Professor Friday Okonofua, a Nigerian professor of gynecology and the founder of Women Health and Action Research Centre, a non-profit and charitable organization headquartered in Benin City, which focuses on promoting female reproductive research. History The establishment of the university was a result of the bill signed into law in 2014 by Olusegun Mimiko, the executive governor of Ondo State, to establish a state university of medical sciences. The bill was proposed by the Ondo State House of Assembly under Schedule 1, Section 5(2), and Article 39(1) of Ondo State Laws. The university's first substantive Chancellor, Professor Friday Okonofua, was appointed on March 11, 2015, following the approval of the university by the National University Commission, NUC. The current Vice-chancellor of the university is Professor Adesegun Fatusi Faculties List of available academic programmes/courses SCIENCES(1.) Microbiology (2.) Chemistry (3.) Mathematics and Computer Science (4.) Physics (5.) Food Science (6.) Science Laboratory Technology (7.) Bioscience and Biotechnology BASIC MEDICAL SCIENCES(1.) Anatomy (2.) Biochemistry (3.) Physiology BASIC CLINICAL SCIENCES(1.) Anatomic Pathology (2.) Chemical Pathology (3.) Haematology (4.) Microbial Pathology (5.) Pharmacology and Therapeutics CLINICAL SCIENCES(1.) Community Medicine (2.) Internal Medicine (3.) Obstetrics and Gynecology (4.) Paediatrics & Child Health (5.) Radiology (6.) Surgery DENTAL SCIENCES(1.) Child Dental Health (2.) Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery (3.) Oral/ Maxillofacial Pathology, Radiology and Oral Medicine (4.) Preventive & Community Dentistry (5.) Restorative Dentistry NURSING SCIENCES(1.) Adult and Mental Health Psychiatric Nursing (2.) Community Health Nursing (3.) Maternal, Neonatal and Child Health Nursing (4.) Nursing Education and Administration (5.) IPNME ALLIED HEALTH SCIENCES(1.) Medical Laboratory Science (2.) Human Nutrition and Dietetics (3.) Radiography and Radiation Science (4.) Health Information Management MEDICAL REHABILITATION(1.) Physiotherapy (2.) Occupational Therapy (3.) Prosthetics and Orthotics (4.) Audiology and Speech Therapy Institutes Institute of Community Health Innovation And Development See also List of tertiary institutions in Ondo State Pondicherry Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS, French: Institut des sciences médicales de Pondichéry) is a tertiary care hospital and teaching institute at Kalapet in the Union Territory of Puducherry, India. The college has been approved for full recognition by MCI for 150 seats for MBBS degree granted by the Pondicherry University. The PIMS is a unit of The Madras Medical Mission, a charitable society and hospital in Chennai promoted by the members of the Malankara Orthodox Christian community. College administration The Office-bearers of The Madras Medical Mission are: H.G Dr. Yuhanon Mar Diascoros, Bishop of Madras - Hon. President Reji Abraham - Hon. Vice-President M.M. Philip - Hon. Secretary and Chairman (PIMS) E. John Thomas - Hon. TreasurerThe Hospital/Medical School is currently administered by Director-Principal Dr. Renu Gboy Varghese. Administrative Officers include: Dean UG (Undergraduate Studies): Dr. Johnny Asir Dean PG (Postgraduate Studies): Dr. Sheela Devi Bazroy Dean Research: Dr. Reba Kanungo Dean MEU: Dr. Subhasis Das Registrar: Dr. Anil.J.Purty Academics and courses PIMS has a Medical College, Multi-Specialty Hospital and a Nursing College. PIMS Pondicherry offers more than 20 courses in medical stream including MBBS, MD, MS and M Ch in plastic surgery. All these courses include undergraduate, post graduate and doctoral courses. It also has post graduate diplomas in many fields. College of Nursing, PIMS College of Nursing (French: Collège des sciences infirmières), Pondicherry Institute of Medical Sciences was established in 2004 and is affiliated to Pondicherry University. It offers BSc and Msc in nursing. References External links Official website Sun Yat-sen University (中山大学; SYSU) is a public university in Guangzhou, Guangdong, China. It is affiliated with the Ministry of Education, and co-funded by the Ministry of Education, SASTIND, and Guangdong Provincial Government. The university is part of Project 211, Project 985, and the Double First-Class Construction. The university was founded in 1924 by and named after Sun Yat-sen, a revolutionary and the founder of the Republic of China. The university's main campus, commonly referred to as the South Campus, is located in Haizhu, Guangzhou, inheriting the campus from the former Lingnan University (est. 1888). The university has five campuses in the three cities of Guangzhou, Zhuhai and Shenzhen, and ten affiliated hospitals. History In the beginning each the Sun Yat-sen Universities were adopted a statism educational model (中山大學模式) and based on Sun Yat-sen's political philosophy, present-day Sun Yat-sen University is the result of multiple mergers as well as splits and restructurings that have involved more than a dozen academic institutions over time. The most recent merger happened in 2001, when Sun Yat-sen University of Medical Science merged with Sun Yat-sen University and became Sun Yat-sen College of Medical Science. Sun Yat-sen University In 1924, Sun Yat-sen founded National Kwangtung University (國立廣東大學) in Canton and inscribed in his own handwriting the school motto of Study Extensively, Enquire Accurately, Reflect Carefully, Discriminate Clearly, Practise Earnestly. After the death of Sun Yat-sen, the Nationalist government that was set up during the first cooperation between the Communists and Nationalists formally decreed to change its name to National Sun Yat-sen University (國立中山大學) on July 17, 1926, in memory of Sun Yat-sen. In 1926, there were four National Sun Yat-sen Universities: National First Sun Yat-sen University in Canton (the current Sun Yat-sen University), National Second Sun Yat-sen University in Wuhan (the current Wuhan University), National Third Sun Yat-sen University in Hangzhou (the current Zhejiang University), National Fourth Sun Yat-sen University in Nanking (the predecessor of the current Nanjing University, Southeast University, and National Central University). The Nationalist government also planned to organize the National Fifth Sun Yat-sen University in Zhengzhou, but end up naming it as the Henan Provincial Sun Yat-sen University (the current Henan University). In the 1930s, there were seven schools in the University: the Schools of Arts, Sciences, Law, Engineering, Agricultural Studies, Medicine and Education. In 1935, National Sun Yat-sen University, concurrently with National Tsinghua University and National Peking University, set up the first graduate schools in China and began to enroll graduate students. Soon after the Chinese Communist Party took over Canton in 1949, the University removed its prefix National and has been thereafter referred directly to Sun Yat-sen University (中山大学). In the 1950s, colleges, schools and departments were readjusted nationwide, and Sun Yat-sen University became a national top-tier comprehensive university with the liberal arts and sciences as its backbone disciplines. Sun Yat-sen University of Medical Sciences One of the predecessors of the Sun Yat-sen University of Medical Science was the Pok Tsai Medical School, which, founded in 1866, was the earliest institution of learning of western medicine in China, where Sun Yat-sen once studied and engaged in revolutionary activities. The Pok Tsai Medical School evolved into the College of Medicine of Lingnan University in 1936. The Kung Yee Medical School and Hospital in Guangzhou (Canton) was founded in 1908. In 1925, the Kung Yee institutions were taken over by the government and became the Medical Department of the National First Sun Yat-sen (Zhongshan) University. In 1953, the Colleges of Medicine in Sun Yat-sen University and Lingnan University merged to form the College of Medicine of South China, which was joined by the Guangdong Guanghua College of Medicine in 1954. The university was renamed Guangzhou College of Medicine and Sun Yat-sen College of Medical Science successively, and finally Sun Yat-sen University of Medical Science in 1985, which has developed steadfastly into a comprehensive medical university with multi-schools and multiple levels, has reached national advanced level and achieved remarkable successes in scientific research in medical genetics, ophthalmology, tumor study, parasite study, the kidney disease of internal medicine, organ transplant, infectious liver disease, biological medical project and molecular medical science. In 2001, Sun Yat-sen University of Medical Science merged with Sun Yat-sen University and became Sun Yat-sen College of Medical Science. Lingnan University Lingnan University (Chinese: 嶺南大學) was a private university established by Andrew Happer, MD and a group of American missionaries in Guangzhou in 1888. At its founding it was named Canton Christian College (格致書院). The Hackett Medical College for Women (夏葛女子醫學院, the first medical college for women in China) and its affiliated hospital known as David Gregg Hospital for Women and Children (柔濟醫院), located in Guangzhou, China, were parts of a medical center that was founded by female medical missionary Mary H. Fulton (1854-1927). Fulton was sent by the Foreign Missions Board of the Presbyterian Church (USA), with the support of the Lafayette Avenue Presbyterian Church of Brooklyn, New York, of which David Gregg was pastor The college was dedicated in 1902 and offered a four-year medical curriculum. At the end of 1932, the medical center was registered and put under the control of the Chinese government. Furthermore, it affiliated with Guangzhou Hospital and Lingnan University to form the Sun Yat-Sen Medical College in 1936.Lingnan University was incorporated into Sun Yat-sen University in 1953 under the order of the Communist Party's government. Members of the university moved to Hong Kong and founded the Lingnan School in Wan Chai in 1967, which was relocated to Tuen Mun in the mid-1990s and renamed Lingnan University in 1999. In 1988, Lingnan College was reestablished within Sun Yat-sen University and is now one of the top schools of economics and management in China. Rankings and reputation Sun Yat-sen University is ranked as one of the top universities in China by all the most influential and widely observed international university rankings, for example, #7 nationwide in Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2015, #6 nationwide in the Academic Ranking of World Universities 2015, and #8 nationwide in U.S. News Global University Ranking 2015.The Times Higher Education 2011 placed Sun Yat-sen University 171st in the world and 5th in China, and the university is regarded as one of the most reputable Chinese universities by the Times Higher Education World Reputation Rankings where it ranked 151st globally. Sun Yat-sen graduates employability rankings placed at #191 in the world in the QS Graduate Employability Rankings.As of 2023. out of all universities worldwide, the university is ranked #72 by the Academic Ranking of World Universities, #129 by U.S. News Global University Ranking, #123 by Center for World University Rankings, #267 by QS World University Rankings, and #201 by Times Higher Education.Regarding scientific research output, the Nature Index 2023 ranked SYSU the No. 8 university in the Asia Pacific region, and 11th in the world among the global universities. The 2023 CWTS Leiden Ranking ranked SYSU 9th in the world by total publications and 40th in the world & 12th in Asia based on the number of their scientific publications belonging to the top 1% in their fields for the time period 2018–2021. Nature Index Nature Index tracks the affiliations of high-quality scientific articles and presents research outputs by institution and country on monthly basis. Academics Statistics (2018) Faculties and Schools Sun Yat-sen University has made several adjustments to its academic departments throughout its history. Starting from the end of 2022, Sun Yat-sen University has implemented a three-tier academic governance system consisting of University-Faculties-Schools(Departments). As of now, the university comprises a total of 67 schools (including directly affiliated departments and teaching units), which are divided among seven faculties: the Faculty of Humanities, the Faculty of Social Sciences, the Faculty of Economics and Management, the Faculty of Natural Sciences, the Faculty of Engineering, the Faculty of Information Science and Technology, and the Faculty of Medicine. These schools are spread across five campuses。 Lingnan (University) College Since 2015, Lingnan (University) college is also triple-accredited by AACSB, EQUIS and AMBA. The college is originated from Lingnan University (Chinese: 岭南大学), a renowned private university established by a group of American missionaries in 1888. Affiliated hospitals The university has the largest affiliated hospital system in China, including Sun Yat-sen University First Hospital, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital (or Sun Yat-sen University Second Hospital), Sun Yat-sen University Third Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University Fourth Hospital (has merged into the First Hospital), Sun Yat-sen University Fifth Hospital (or Zhuhai Hospital), Sun Yat-sen University Sixth Hospital (or Sun Yat-sen University Gastrointestinal & Anal Hospital), Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, Sun Yat-sen University Stomatologic Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University Ophthalmologic Center, Sun Yat-sen University Seventh Hospital (Shenzhen), Sun Yat-sen University Eighth Hospital (Shenzhen). All eight general hospitals, the Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center and Sun Yat-sen University Ophthalmology Center are 3A class hospitals. The First Affiliated Hospital, SYSU The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University was established in 1910, initially called the Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong Public Institution of Medicine. As a 3A hospital (the top level in China), the hospital is the largest and the most comprehensive one among all affiliated hospitals of SYSU, as well as one of the largest hospitals in the country. Sun Yat-sen University First Hospital is ranked #2 in Top 10 General Hospital in China rankings. Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hospital, SYSU Founded as Ophthalmic Hospital in Canton by American Peter Parker in 1835. It originally dealt with diseases of the eye, but later treated other ailments. It later became the Canton Hospital. Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center is a level III (highest rank in China) and class A hospital. It was awarded as “key subject of China” in 2001. In 1980, SYSUCC was designated as World Health Organization (WHO) Collaborating Center for research on cancer. Since 2003, SYSUCC became a sister institution of the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. In 2004, SYSUCC has set up a joint laboratory with Karolinska Institutet of Sweden for research in immunotherapy, molecular virology and oncological epidemiology. Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center is ranked #1 in Top 10 Cancer Hospitals in China rankings. Sun Yat-sen University Ophthalmologic Center Sun Yat-sen University Ophthalmologic Center is the first and leading advanced ophthalmic center and the last resort for advanced eye care in China, integrating eye care, teaching, eye research and blindness prevention. It is also one of the 20 largest general ophthalmic centers in the world. In 2006, Sun Yat-sen University Ophthalmic Center was approved to be the State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, the only one of its kind in China. Sun Yat-sen University Ophthalmologic Center is ranked #1 in Best Ophthalmologic Hospitals in China rankings. Sun Yat-sen University Libraries The university's system of libraries is one of the largest in China. By December 2012, it held more than 6 million paper volumes, including periodicals. The Hilles Collection In June 2005, Harvard College Library of Harvard University donated 158,000 volumes in Hilles Library to Sun Yat-sen University. Developed over a century, the collection is composed of titles in the humanities and social sciences, primarily in English, but also in Western foreign languages. Confucius Institutes Sun Yat-sen University has established five Confucius Institutes since 2006: The Confucius Institute at Ateneo de Manila University The Confucius Institute in Indianapolis, established together with Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis The Confucius Institute at Autonomous University of Yucatan The Confucius Institute in Lyon, established together with Lumière University Lyon 2 and Jean Moulin University Lyon 3 The Confucius Institute at University of Cape Town. Research Essential Science Indicators (ESI) According to statistics of the Essential Science Indicators (ESI) database from January 2003 to February 2013, the total number of citations of papers in 15 disciplines of Sun Yat-sen University entered global top 1%. Following Peking University, Sun Yat-sen University ranked 2nd in universities in China, tied with Fudan University, Shanghai Jiao Tong University and Zhejiang University. The 15 disciplines include Chemistry, Clinical Medicine, Physics, Biology and Biochemistry, Materials Science, Molecular Biology & Genetics, Engineering, Plant and Animal Science, Environment/Ecology, Pharmacology & Toxicology, Neuroscience & Behavior, Mathematics, Microbiology, Agricultural Sciences, and Social Sciences, General. Nature Publishing Index (NPI) Nature Publishing Index shows both Research Articles (Articles, Letters & Brief Communications) and Reviews, published in Nature and/or Nature research journals. The rankings are based on the number of papers that were published during the last 12 months. In time range of 01.07.2013-06.30.2014, Sun Yat-sen University is ranked #5 among Chinese Universities. Postdoctoral Research Stations Sun Yat-sen University has 39 postdoctoral research stations. Journals Sun Yat-sen University publishes altogether 25 scholarly journals, including Acta Scientiarum Naturalium Universitatis Sunyatseni Journey of Sun Yat-sen University Social Science Edition Journey of Sun Yat-sen University (medical science) Diagnostic Imaging & Interventional Radiology (in Chinese) Modern Clinical Nursing (in Chinese) New Medicine (in Chinese) Chinese Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases (in Chinese) Chinese Journal of Cancer Eye Science Campuses At present, the university covers a total area of 6.17 square kilometres (2.38 sq mi), and has 5 campuses: Guangzhou South Campus (广州校区南校园) in Haizhu District, Guangzhou North Campus (广州校区北校园) in Yuexiu District, Guangzhou East Campus (广州校区东校园) in Panyu District, Zhuhai Campus (珠海校区), and Shenzhen Campus. Guangzhou South Campus The south campus of Sun Yat-sen University is located in Haizhu District, Guangzhou, and covers a total area of 1.17 square kilometers. It mainly hosts disciplines in sciences and humanities. Add: No. 135, Xingang Road West, Guangzhou 510275, P. R. China Guangzhou North Campus The North Campus is located in Yuexiu District, Guangzhou, and covers an area of 0.39 square kilometers. It is a campus mainly for disciplines in medical sciences. Add: No. 74, Zhongshan 2nd Road, Guangzhou 510085, P. R. China Guangzhou East Campus The East Campus is located at the north end of the Guangzhou Higher Education Mega Center in Xiaoguwei, Panyu, and covers an area of 1.13 square kilometers. The Guangzhou University City is a major development made by the People's Government of Guangdong Province in an effort to implement the strategy of building Guangdong through science and education. The first batch of students started school there in September 2004. Add: Xiaoguwei Island, Panyu District, Guangzhou 510006, P. R. China Zhuhai Campus The Zhuhai Campus is located at Tang Jia Wan, Zhuhai City, and covers an area of 3.48 square kilometers. Freshmen and sophomores of some disciplines in liberal arts, natural sciences, and medical sciences are currently living and studying on campus with students from the School of Network Education and Continuing Education. Add: Tang Jia Wan, Zhuhai 519082, P. R. China Shenzhen Campus The Shenzhen Campus is located at Guangming District in Shenzhen City, and covers an area of 3.217 square kilometers, it's under construction from 2016 and proposed to open at September 2018. Add: Guangming District, Shenzhen 518107, P. R. China Alumni Since 2017, at least 36 billionaires graduated from Sun Yat-sen University, putting it the first place in the South Central China region and 7th nationally. Sonia Chan, 2nd Secretary for Administration and Justice of Macau Fang Fenglei, former deputy director of China International Capital Corporation and Chairman of Goldman Sachs China Li Fanghua, physicist Shiu-Ying Hu, botanist Huang Huahua, former Governor of Guangdong Muzi Mei, blogger Xu Ningsheng, 21st President of Fudan University Xu Ze, politician Xu Yinchuan, former world xiangqi (Chinese chess) champion Shou-Wu Zhang, Chinese-American mathematician Yingying Zhang, researcher on photosynthesis and crop productivity Zhang Huaicun, artist and writer of children's books Guotai Zhou, major general of the People's Liberation Army Ye Shuhua, prominent astronomer Tsang Hin-chi, entrepreneur and politician, founder of the Goldlion Group Lai Minhua, Director General of Macao Customs Service See also Sun Yat-sen University (disambiguation) National Sun Yat-sen University in Taiwan, Republic of China Moscow Sun Yat-sen University in Moscow, Russia Lingnan College (in Chinese) US-China University Presidents Roundtable References External links Official Website Official website (in Chinese) Information about SYSU at Yale-China Association The Guide to Red Brick Buildings 1: Public Buildings of the Early Architectural Complex on Honglok Campus The Guide to Red Brick Buildings 2: Lodges of the Early Architectural Complex on Honglok Campus Mahidol University is an autonomous public research university in Thailand. The university was founded as part of Siriraj Hospital in 1888. It was first called the University of Medical Science in 1943, and has been recognized as Thailand's fourth public university. The university was renamed in 1969 by King Bhumibol Adulyadej for his father, Prince Mahidol of Songkhla, known as the Father of Modern Medicine and Public Health in Thailand.Originally focused on the health sciences, it has expanded into other fields. The university hosted Thailand's first medical school, Siriraj Medical School. Mahidol offers a range of graduate (primarily international) and undergraduate programs, from the natural sciences to the liberal arts, with remote campuses in Kanchanaburi, Nakhon Sawan, and Amnat Charoen provinces. There are a total of 629 programs in 17 faculties, six colleges, nine research institutions and six campuses. The university has the largest budget of any public university in Thailand: $430 million in 2019, most of which is for graduate research programs. Mahidol had an acceptance rate of 0.4 percent in medicine for the 2016 academic year, and was ranked Thailand's number-one university in 2011 by QS Asian University Rankings. History The first Thai medical school, Bhatayakorn School (Thai: โรงเรียนแพทยากร), was founded with a royal decree by King Chulalongkorn in 1888. At the former palace (the present-day Bangkok Noi campus at Siriraj Hospital, the school offered a three-year medical certification course. After a visit by King Chulalongkorn and Queen Saovabha Phongsri, it was renamed the Royal Medical College (Thai: ราชแพทยาลัย). The school was merged with Chulalongkorn University in Vajiravudh's 6 April 1917 decree as the Faculty of Medicine of Chulalongkorn University (now the Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University). The government of Plaek Phibunsongkhram then separated the Faculty of Medicine (Siriraj Medical School) departments of dentistry, pharmacy, and veterinary science from Chulalongkorn University and re-organized them as the University of Medical Sciences (Thai: มหาวิทยาลัยแพทยศาสตร์). Founded on 2 February 1943, it has added schools and departments. In 1959, the Medical Science Preparatory School (the present-day Faculty of Science) was moved to Phaya Thai District and became the Phaya Thai campus. During the 1960s, the university focused its development on that campus. In 1965, another medical school (the Faculty of Medicine of Ramathibodi Hospital) was established at Phaya Thai. The first medical school outside Bangkok was the Faculty of Medicine Nakorn Chiang Mai Hospital in Chiang Mai Province until 1964, when it was transferred to Chiang Mai University. Before being transferred In 1968, the university established pharmacy and dentistry schools at a new campus separate from Chulalongkorn University. King Bhumibol Adulyadej changed the school's name to Mahidol University (Thai: มหาวิทยาลัยมหิดล) on 21 February 1969 in honor of his father, Prince Mahidol of Songkla. The university bought a large suburban area, known as Salaya, in 1971 for future development. During the following years, the former faculties of dentistry and pharmacy were returned to Chulalongkorn University. King Bhumibol wanted Mahidol University to expand into the social sciences, and the Faculty of Social Sciences and Humanities was founded in 1969. Construction of the Salaya campus began in 1975, but was delayed due to the political situation and financial constraints. The campus was opened on 23 July 1983, and all education for freshman-year students was moved there. Later development of the university, centered on the Salaya campus, diverged from the health sciences to meet Thailand's academic demands. The country's first internship college was founded at Mahidol in 1986. Ratchasuda College, devoted to the disabled, was established in 1999. Athasit Vejjajiva, the father of former prime minister Abhisit Vejjajiva, was president of Mahidol from 1995 to 1999.The university expanded to Kanchanaburi in 2002 to offer students more learning opportunities in rural communities. It expanded to Nakhon Sawan in 2004, accepting the first class of management students in 2004 and the first class of arts students in 2005. The university began construction of the Amnat Charoen Campus, which was completed in 2009. MU is part of the Association of Southeast Asian Institutions of Higher Learning (ASAIHL) and is a national research university, designated by the Ministry of Education under Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva. In 2009, MU joined the ASEAN University Network (AUN). Rank and reputation MU entered the QS World University Rankings in 2006 as 322nd in the world and third in Thailand. According to Quacquarelli Symonds' 2010 Asian ranking, MU was 228th in the world, 28th in Asia, and Thailand's top university. Mahidol University International College (MUIC), Thailand's first international college, offers a range of international undergraduate and graduate programs. Its newest division is Fine and Applied Arts, which houses the Entertainment Media Program (EMP) and the Communication Design Program (CDP). Both programs offer a Bachelor of Arts degree, and EMP has three majors: film, TV, and animation.In 2009, MU was selected as one of Thailand's national research universities by the Ministry of Education's Office of Higher Education Commission. The government implemented an emergency policy to develop the national research university to an international standard to promote Thailand as a hub of Asian education, research and development, and the Office of Higher Education Commission organized the National Research University Initiative and Research Promotion. The cabinet resolved in May 2009 to approve the project with a budget of about $350 million for the three-year, 2010-2012 fiscal-year period.The University Ranking by Academic Performance (URAP) ranked MU as Thailand's best university and number 34 in Asia in 2010, but it dropped to number 351 in the world. In the 2019 Times Higher Education World University Rankings (THE), Mahidol was Thailand's top university and number 97 on the list. In 2019, Mae Fah Luang University and Mahidol University were the leading Thai tertiary institutions. According to the 2023 THE, MU was between 801 and 1,000th on its list. Academic structure The university has 17 faculties, six colleges, nine research institutes and six campuses (three provincial campuses), and offers a range of academic programs in three core areas: health sciences, science and technology, and social sciences and humanities. Over 70 centers and laboratories for specialized research fields use interdisciplinary and inter-institutional approaches to research and postgraduate training to meet the present and future needs of government and industry. The Mahidol University Applied and Technological Service Center serves the public and private sectors and supports research. The university has two faculties of medicine which operate five hospitals, an institute of medicine affiliated with four hospitals (with Medical Education Centers for the Collaborative Project to Increase Production of Rural Doctors), and trains medical students for two other colleges of medicine. This produces about 850 medical doctors annually, with centers for comprehensive, specialized medical training and patient care; about 4,250 beds serve nearly 4.4 million outpatients and 120,000 in-patients per year. The Bangkok School of Tropical Medicine, the educational arm of the Faculty of Tropical Medicine, offers postgraduate programs from the graduate-diploma to doctoral level. The school is accredited by the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene as one of eight schools in the world offering a diploma in tropical medicine, and the only school in which students can learn about tropical diseases in the tropics. The faculty operates the Hospital for Tropical Diseases. A dental unit at the Faculty of Dentistry and the Golden Jubilee Medical Center at Salaya serves about 340,000 patients a year.Mahidol University Library and Information Center (MULIC) contains an automated library system with cyber-linked branches on MU's campuses; over 1,100,000 books, theses, research reports, and bound journals; 1,200 printed journals, 15,000 electronic journals and 16,000 electronic books; 13,000 audiovisual materials; hundreds of computer terminals and multimedia viewing equipment, and online reference services, multi-database searching and document-delivery services.The Mahidol University Computing Network (MUC-Net) accommodates at least 500 local area networks, interconnecting over 350 servers and 10,000 terminals and PCs in all departments throughout the university; advanced, networked computer systems; multicast and broadcast data transmission for video conferences, distance learning, e-Learning, and IP-TV applications. Digital services include the Mahidol University Library and Information Center Network (MULINET), the Mahidol University Intranet; MUC-Net; an intra-phone, IP-phone, wireless campus network; multi-media, distance-learning and video-conferencing facilities; a management information system (MIS), and the Center for Administrative Information System (MU-ADMIN-IS). The multi-purpose, 2,000-seat Prince Mahidol Hall, on the Salaya campus, was completed in 2014 and is used for graduation ceremonies, music performances and conferences. It is the main concert hall for the Thailand Philharmonic Orchestra (TPO). Managed by MU Faculties: Faculty of Dentistry Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi Hospital Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital Faculty of Science Faculty of Tropical MedicineColleges: College of Management College of Music Mahidol University International College (MUIC) Affiliates Phramongkutklao College of Medicine HRH Princess Chulabhorn College of Medical Science Collaborative Project to Increase Production of Rural Doctor (CPIRD): Maharat Nakhon Ratchasima Hospital Medical Education Center Maharaj Nakhon Si Thammarat Hospital Medical Education Center Sawanpracharak Hospital Medical Education Center Ratchaburi Hospital Medical Education Center Former affiliates Faculty of Medicine Vajira Hospital, Navamindradhiraj University Kuakarun Faculty of Nursing, Navamindradhiraj University Praboromarajchanok Institute Campuses MU has several campuses in Bangkok, Thailand's capital: a suburban campus, two older, inner-city campuses, and a downtown high-rise office site for the College of Management. The university also has provincial campuses in Kanchanaburi, Nakhon Sawan and Amnat Charoen provinces. Bangkok Noi The former Rear Palace, divided for Siriraj Hospital, is MU's Bangkok Noi campus. The campus extended into the districts of Bangkok Noi and Bangplad, and houses the Faculty of Medicine, Siriraj Hospital, and the Faculties of Nursing, Medical Technology, and Physical Therapy and Applied Movement Science. It has personal and recreational facilities such as dormitories, cafeterias and sporting facilities. Phaya Thai The urban, 78-acre (32 ha) campus covers three linked areas in central Bangkok and houses Ramathibodi Hospital and the Hospital for Tropical Diseases, with the university's focus on medicine and the sciences at the Faculties of Medicine (Ramathibodi Hospital), Dentistry, Pharmacy, Public Health, Tropical Medicine, and Science. It also houses the Institute for Innovation and Development of Learning Process, the National Doping Control Center and the Mahidol University Computing Center, supporting facilities, and student accommodations. Salaya The suburban Salaya campus covers 520 acres (210 ha) of semi-rural land in Nakhon Pathom Province, within easy reach of central Bangkok. It houses most academic and research departments and supporting facilities, including the Central and branch libraries, computer labs, the office of the president, indoor stadiums, a sports complex, the Student Union, shops, cafeterias, student dormitories and condominiums. Vipawadee The downtown, high-rise campus houses the College of Management (usually abbreviated CMMU). It offers graduate programs in management at the Master's, post-Master's and Ph.D. levels. Facilities include a library, computer labs, study rooms, cafeteria, shops and a gym. Samut Prakan The Chakri Naruebodindra Medical Institute (CNMI), part of the Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi Hospital, is in the Bang Phli District of Samut Prakan Province. The institute consists of the 400-bed Ramathibodi Chakri Naruebodindra Hospital, a community building, the Queen Sirikit Learning and Research Centre, student and staff dormitories, and a recreation building. Provincial campuses The Kanchanaburi campus, in western Thailand, aims to expand rural higher education to increase local incomes, create occupational opportunities and improve the quality of rural life. An administration building, two lecture and laboratory buildings, and 13 dormitories have been built on the 2,370-acre (9.6 km2) campus, in addition to two field stations for research in population studies and tropical medicine. The Faculty of Veterinary Science opened Thailand's first hospital for livestock and wildlife on this campus. Four greenhouses have been built for the Faculty of Science, Agriculture Science program. MU is considering expanding its six undergraduate programs to 12 and building six additional dormitories to accommodate an expected enrollment of 2,400.Mahidol is developing two more provincial campuses: the 672-acre (2.72 km2) Nakhon Sawan campus in Nakhon Sawan Province of northern Thailand, and the 169-acre (0.68 km2) Amnat Charoen campus in Amnat Charoen Province in the northeast. Nakhon Sawan, with an administration building and lecture, laboratory and hospital buildings, offers undergraduate programs in Agricultural Science, Ecocultural Entrepreneurship, Nursing Science, and Public Health. The Amnat Charoen campus, completed in 2009, offers undergraduate programs in Agricultural Science, Innovation for Social and Environmental Management, and Public Health. See also List of universities and colleges in Thailand References This article incorporates material from the corresponding Thai article. External links Official website Mahidol University International College Shadan Institute of Medical Sciences is a medical college in Rangareddy, Hyderabad, Telangana. The institute with 150 medical seats is attached to an 800-bedded Multi speciality hospital for world class clinical training of its students as per the Medical Council of India. The college is currently affiliated to the KNR University of Health Sciences, Warangal, Telangana and is recognized by the Government of India. Management Shadan Institute of Medical Sciences Teaching Hospital & Research Centre is established and administered by Shadan Educational Society. It was founded in 1985, under A.P. registration Act of 1350 Fasli, by Dr Mohammed Vizarath Rasool Khan. He is a medical graduate from Osmania Medical College and subsequently practiced medicine. He served as member of legislative assembly for two terms in the years 1984–1989. The institute is administered by Dr Mohammed Sarib Rasool Khan - Managing Director. Madam Mrs Shadan Tehniyath - Secretary Mr Azaz ur Rahman - Vice Chairman Dr Jagannatham - Prof & Dean Dr Vasantha Prasad - retired DME - AP (hospital Superintendent) See also List of Medical Schools in India References External links DCMS on MCI Colleges List Medical Council of India The Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS) is an international non-governmental organization of 40 international, national, and associate member groups representing the biomedical science community. It was jointly established by the World Health Organization (WHO) and United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in 1949 as a successor to the International Medical Congress that organized 17 conferences from 1867 until the 1913 outbreak of World War One.The group's main goal is advancing public health by publishing guidelines on ethics, product development, and safety in medical research, such as the 2016 International Ethical Guidelines for Health-Related Research Involving Humans. Governance The General Assembly of all CIOMS member organizations meets every year, alternating between in-person and teleconference formats, to elect the Executive Committee and its voting President. The Executive Committee of twelve representatives from national and international member groups meets at least one a year, appointing and guiding the Secretariat, consisting of the Secretary-General and their team in Geneva, Switzerland. The Executive Committee can invite non-voting ad hoc observers and technical experts. Round Tables and Working Groups After its 1948 founding by UNESCO and the WHO as the Council for Coordination of International Medical Congresses, these UN specialized agencies funded its first conference in Brussels, Belgium. In 1952, the group was renamed as the Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS) to reflect a focus on guiding member organizations that internally organize field-specific conferences. From 1967 to 1997, it organized annual round tables on medical science topics, offering a standardized conference format: I. Biomedical Science and the Dilemma of Human Experimentation Paris, France, 1967 II. Heart Transplantation Geneva, Switzerland, 1968 III. Evaluation of Drugs: Whose Responsibility? Liège, Belgium, 1968 IV. Medical Research: Priorities and Responsibilities, Geneva, Switzerland, 1969 V. Training of Research Workers in Medical Sciences, Geneva, Switzerland, 1970 VI. Drug Abuse: Non-Medical Use of Dependence-Producing Drugs, Geneva, Switzerland, 1971 VII. Recent Progress in Biology and Medicine: Its Social and Ethical Implications, Paris, France, 1972 VIII. Protection of Human Rights in the Light of Scientific and Technological Progress in Biology and Medicine, Geneva, Switzerland, 1973 IX. Medical Care and Society, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 1974 X. Health Needs of Society: A Challenge for Medical Education Ulm, Germany, 1976 XI. Trends and Prospects in Drug Research and Development, Geneva, Switzerland, 1977 XII. Medical Ethics and the Protection of Human Rights Cascais, Portugal, 1978 XIII. Economics and Health Policy, Geneva, Switzerland, 1979 XIV. Medical Ethics and Medical Education, Mexico, 1980 XV. Human Experimentation and Medical Ethics, Manila, Philippines, 1981 XVI. Health for All – A Challenge to Research in Health Manpower Development, Ibadan, Nigeria, 1982 XVII. Biomedical Research Involving Animals – Proposed International Guiding Principles, Geneva, Switzerland, 1983 XVIII. Health Policy Ethics and Human Values: An International Dialogue, Athens, Greece, 1984 XIV. Battered Children and Child Abuse, Berne, Switzerland, 1985 XX. Health Manpower out of Balance. Conflicts and Prospects, Acapulco, Mexico 1986 XXI. Health Policy, Ethics, and Human Values: European and North American Perspectives, Noordwijk, the Netherlands, 1987 XXII. Ethics and Human Values in Family Planning, Bangkok, Thailand, 1988 XXIII. Health Technology Transfer: Whose Responsibility? Geneva, Switzerland, 1989 XXIV. Genetics, Ethics, and Human Values: Human Genome Mapping, Genetic Screening and Gene Therapy, Tokyo and Inuyama City, Japan, 1990 XXV. Ethics and Epidemiology: International Guidelines, Geneva, Switzerland, 1990 XXVI. Ethics and Research on Human Subjects. International Guidelines, Geneva, Switzerland, 1992 XXVII. Drug Surveillance: International Cooperation – Past, Present, and Future, Geneva, Switzerland, 1993 XXVIII. Poverty, Vulnerability, the Value of Human Life, and the Emergence of Bioethics, Ixtapa, Mexico, 1994 The Declaration of Inuyama, a follow-up to the 1990 Conference, Inuyama and Nagayo, 1995 XXIX. Ethics, Equity, and Health for All, Geneva, Switzerland, 1997In 1990, CIOMS shifted to a format of assembling working groups of scientists from regulatory bodies, industry, and academia to meet for 2–4 years to reach consensus with other stakeholders and publish recommended guidelines. When the working groups are composed solely of CIOMS members, they are assigned a sequential identifier, whereas partnerships with outside groups are known by their specific topic: Working Group I (founded 1990): International Reporting of Adverse Drug Reactions Working Group II (founded 1992): International Reporting of Periodic Drug-Safety Update Summaries Working Group III (founded 1995): Guidelines for Preparing Core Clinical-Safety Information on Drugs Working Group IV (founded 1998): Benefit-Risk Balance for Marketed Drugs: Evaluation of Safety Signals Standardized Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) Queries (founded 2002) Vaccine Pharmacovigilance (founded November 2005) Working Group VIII (founded September 2006): Signal Detection Working Group IX (founded April 2010): Risk Minimization Working Group X (founded September 2010): Meta-Analysis Bioethics (founded 2011) Vaccine Safety (founded 2013) Drug-Induced Liver Injury (founded April 2017) Clinical Research in Resource-Limited Settings (founded November 2017) Working Group XI (founded April 2018): Patient Involvement Working Group XII (founded September 2019): Benefit-Risk Balance for Medicinal Products Working Group XIII (founded March 2020): Real-World Data and Real-World Evidence in Regulatory Decision Making Working Group XIV (founded May 2022): Artificial Intelligence in Pharmacovigilance Publications In March 1959, Austin Bradford Hill, then director of the UK Medical Research Council's Statistical Research Unit, chaired a Vienna-based CIOMS conference on controlled clinical trials. The proceedings, published in 1960, commented on research ethics, experimental design, and statistical analysis. Hill would later outline Bradford Hill criteria for establishing causal relationships between statistically correlated phenomena.This publication laid the groundwork for CIOMS' 1982, 1993, 2002, 2009, and 2016 versions of International Ethical Guidelines for Health-Related Research Involving Humans. These guidelines have been praised for including diverse stakeholders from low- and middle-income countries, compared to the Declaration of Helsinki written by physicians of the World Medical Association. While neither of these documents are legally binding like the Council of Europe's Oviedo Convention, their role as recommended guidelines avoids ethical imperialism.The first CIOMS working group produced a reporting form for adverse drug reactions, which shaped the International Council for Harmonization of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH)'s E2B guideline. The International Organisation for Standards (ISO), European Committee for Standardization (CEN), and Health Level 7 International (HL7) used these guidelines in publishing the ISO/HL7 27953:2011 standards on Health Informatics: Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs) in Pharmacovigilance. Membership Source: International Members International College of Angiology International Federation of Associations of Pharmaceutical Physicians and Pharmaceutical Medicine International Federation of Otorhinolaryngological Societies International Rhinologic Society International Society of Internal Medicine International Society of Pharmacoepidemiology International Society of Pharmacovigilance International Union of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology Medical Women's International Association World Allergy Organization World Association of Societies of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine World Medical Association National Members Bangladesh, Bangladesh Medical Research Council Belgium, Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium Czech Republic, Czech Medical Association Georgia, Georgian Society of Pharmacology Germany, Association of the Scientific Medical Societies in Germany India, Indian Council of Medical Research Israel, The Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities Republic of Korea, Korean Academy of Medical Sciences South Africa, South African Medical Research Council Switzerland, Swiss Academy of Medical Sciences Associate Members American Society for Bioethics and Humanities Asia Pacific Academy of Ophthalmology Consulta di Bioetica Federation of Polish Medical Organizations Abroad Good Clinical Practice Alliance International Council for Laboratory Animal Science International Federation of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine International Federation of Medical Students' Associations International Medical Sciences Academy International Society of Hepatic Encephalopathies & Nitrogen Metabolism International Union of Microbiological Societies International Union of Physiological Sciences Medical Sciences Society of Queensland University, Haiti National Fund for Scientific Research Saudi Neonatology Society World Association for Medical Law World Federation of Chiropractic World Organization of Family Doctors See also CIOMS/RUCAM scale CIOMS I Form Pharmacovigilance Clinical trial Regulation of therapeutic goods References External links CIOMS Official Site World Health Organization - Regulation and Safety United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) - Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights Health technology is defined by the World Health Organization as the application of organized knowledge and skills in the form of devices, medicines, vaccines, procedures, and systems developed to solve a health problem and improve quality of lives. This includes pharmaceuticals, devices, procedures, and organizational systems used in the healthcare industry, as well as computer-supported information systems. In the United States, these technologies involve standardized physical objects, as well as traditional and designed social means and methods to treat or care for patients. Development Pre-digital Era During a pre-digital era, patients suffered from inefficient and faulty clinical systems, processes, and conditions. Many medical errors happened in the past due to undeveloped health technologies. Some examples of these medical errors included adverse drug events and alarm fatigue. Alarm fatigue is caused when an alarm is repeatedly triggered or activated and one becomes desensitized to them. As the alarms were sometimes triggered by unimportant events in the past, nurses thought the alarm was not significant. Alarm fatigue is dangerous because it could lead to death and dangerous situations. With technological development, an intelligent program of integration and physiologic sense-making was developed and helped reduce the number of false alarms.Also, with greater investment in health technologies, fewer medical errors happened. Outdated paper records were replaced in many healthcare organizations by electronic health records (EHR). According to studies, this change has brought a lot of changes to healthcare. Drug administration has improved, healthcare providers can now access medical information easier, provide better treatments and faster results, and save more costs. Improvement To help promote and expand the adoption of health information technology, Congress passed the HITECH act as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. HITECH stands for Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act. It gave the department of health and human services the authority to improve healthcare quality and efficiency through the promotion of health IT. The act provided financial incentives or penalties to organizations to motivate healthcare providers to improve healthcare. The purpose of the act was to improve quality, safety, efficiency, and ultimately to reduce health disparities.One of the main parts of the HITECH act was setting the meaningful use requirement, which required EHRs to allow for the electronic exchange of health information and to submit clinical information. The purpose of HITECH is to ensure the sharing of electronic information with patients and other clinicians are secure. HITECH also aimed to help healthcare providers have more efficient operations and reduce medical errors. The program consisted of three phases. Phase one aimed to improve healthcare quality, safety and efficiency. Phase two expanded on phase one and focused on clinical processes and ensuring the meaningful use of EHRs. Lastly, phase three focused on using Certified Electronic Health Record Technology (CEHRT) to improve health outcomes.In 2014, the implementation of electronic records in US hospitals rose from a low percentage of 10% to a high percentage of 70%.At the beginning of 2018, healthcare providers who participated in the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program needed to report on Quality Payment Program requirements. The program focused more on interoperability and aimed to improve patient access to health information. Privacy of Health Data Phones that can track one's whereabouts, steps and more can serve as medical devices, and medical devices have much the same effect as these phones. In the research article, Privacy Attitudes among Early Adopters of Emerging Health Technologies by Cynthia Cheung, Matthew Bietz, Kevin Patrick and Cinnamon Bloss discovered people were willing to share personal data for scientific advancements, although they still expressed uncertainty about who would have access to their data. People are naturally cautious about giving out sensitive personal information. Phones add an extra level of threat according to the research article Security in Cloud-Computing-Based Mobile Health. Mobile devices continue to increase in popularity each year. The addition of mobile devices serving as medical devices increases the chances for an attacker to gain unauthorized information.In 2015 the Medical Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (MACRA) was passed, pushing towards electronic health records. Health Information Technology: Integration, Patient Empowerment, and Security by K. Marvin provided multiple different polls based on people's views on different types of technology entering the medical field most answers were responded with somewhat likely and very few completely disagreed on the technology being used in medicine. Marvin discusses the maintenance required to protect medical data and technology against cyber attacks as well as providing a proper data backup system for the information.Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) also known as Obamacare and health information technology health care is entering the digital era. Although with this development it needs to be protected. Both health information and financial information now made digital within the health industry might become a larger target for cyber-crime. Even with multiple different types of safeguards hackers somehow still find their way in so the security that is in place needs to constantly be updated to prevent these breaches. Policy With the increased use of IT systems, privacy violations were increasing rapidly due to the easier access and poor management. As such, the concern of privacy has become an important topic in healthcare. Privacy breaches happen when organizations do not protect the privacy of people's data. There are four types of privacy breaches, which include unintended disclosure by authorized personnel, intended disclosure by authorized personnel, privacy data loss or theft, and virtual hacking. It became more important to protect the privacy and security of patients' data because of the high negative impact on both individuals and organizations. Stolen personal information can be used to open credit cards or other unethical behaviors. Also, individuals have to spend a large amount of money to rectify the issue. The exposure of sensitive health information also can cause negative impacts on individuals' relationships, jobs, or other personal areas. For the organization, the privacy breach can cause loss of trust, customers, legal actions, and monetary fines. HIPAA stands for the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. It is a U.S. healthcare legislation to direct how patient data is used and includes two major rules which are privacy and security of data. The privacy rule protects people's rights to privacy and security rule determines how to protect people's privacy.According to the HIPAA Security Rule, it ensures that protected health information has three characteristics. They are confidentiality, availability, and integrity. Confidentiality indicates keeping the data confidential to prevent data loss or individuals who are unauthorized to access that protected health information. Availability allows people who are authorized to access the systems and networks when and where that information is in fact needed, such as natural disasters. In cases like this, protected health information is mostly backed up on to a separate server or printed out in paper copies, so people can access it. Lastly, Integrity ensures not using inaccurate information and improperly modified data due to a bad design system or process to protect the permanence of the patient data. The consequences of using inaccurate or improperly modified data could become useless or even dangerous.Health Organizations of HIPAA also created administrative safeguards, physical safeguards, technical safeguards, to help protect the privacy of patients. Administrative safeguards typically include security management process, security personnel, information access management, workforce training and management, and evaluation of security policies and procedures. Security management processes are one of the important administrative safeguards' examples. It is essential to reduce the risks and vulnerabilities of the system. The processes are mostly the standard operating procedures written out as training manuals. The purpose is to educate people on how to handle protected health information in proper behavior.Physical safeguards include lock and key, card swipe, positioning of screens, confidential envelopes, and shredding of paper copies. Lock and key are common examples of physical safeguards. They can limit physical access to facilities. Lock and key are simple, but they can prevent individuals from stealing medical records. Individuals must have an actual key to access to the lock.Lastly, technical safeguards include access control, audit controls, integrity controls, and transmission security. The access control mechanism is a common example of technical safeguards. It allows the access of authorized personnel. The technology includes authentication and authorization. Authentication is the proof of identity that handles confidential information like username and password, while authorization is the act of determining whether a particular user is allowed to access certain data and perform activities in a system like add and delete. Assessment The concept of health technology assessment (HTA) was first coined in 1967 by the U.S. Congress in response to the increasing need to address the unintended and potential consequences of health technology, along with its prominent role in society. It was further institutionalized with the establishment of the congressional Office of Technology Assessment (OTA) in 1972–1973. HTA is defined as a comprehensive form of policy research that examines short- and long-term consequences of the application of technology, including benefits, costs, and risks. Due to the broad scope of technology assessment, it requires the participation of individuals besides scientists and health care practitioners such as managers and even the consumers.Several American organizations provide health technology assessments and these include the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and the Veterans Administration through its VA Technology Assessment Program (VATAP). The models adopted by these institutions vary, although they focus on whether a medical technology being offered is therapeutically relevant. A study conducted in 2007 noted that the assessments still did not use formal economic analyses.Aside from its development, however, assessment in the health technology industry has been viewed as sporadic and fragmented Issues such as the determination of products that needed to be developed, cost, and access, among others, also emerged. These - some argue - need to be included in the assessment since health technology is never purely a matter of science but also of beliefs, values, and ideologies. One of the mechanisms being suggested – either as an element of- or an alternative to the current TAs is bioethics, which is also referred to as the fourth-generation evaluation framework. There are at least two dimensions to an ethical HTA. The first involves the incorporation of ethics in the methodological standards employed to assess technologies while the second is concerned with the use of ethical framework in research and judgment on the part of the researchers who produce information used in the industry. Health technology in the future The practice of medicine in the United States is currently in a major transition. This transition is due to many factors, but primarily because of the implementation and integration of health technologies into healthcare. In recent years, the widespread adoption of electronic health records (EHR) has caused a big impact on healthcare. The Digital Doctor: Hope, Hype, and Harm at the Dawn of Medicine's Computer Age, by Robert Wachter, aims to inform readers about this transition. Dr. Wachter has reviewed and made points about the future of health technologies in the book. He states that there will be fewer hospitals in the future. Due to the advancement of technologies, people will be more likely to go to hospitals for major surgeries or critical illness. In the future, nurse call buttons will not be needed in hospitals. Instead, robots will deliver medication, take care of patients, and administer the system. In the future, the electronic health record will look different. Healthcare providers will be able to enter the notes via speech-to-text transcriptions in real-time.Dr. Wachter stated that information will be edited collaboratively across the patient-care team to improve the quality. Also, natural language processing will be more developed to help parse out keywords. In the future, patient data will reside in the cloud. Patients will be able to access their data from any device or location. The data is also accessible for authorized providers and individuals. In the future, big data analysis will constantly be improving. Artificial Intelligence and machine learning will be constantly improving and developing as it receives new data. Alerts will also be more intelligent and efficient than the current systems. Medical technology Medical technology, or Medtech, encompasses a wide range of healthcare products and is used to treat diseases and medical conditions affecting humans. Such technologies are intended to improve the quality of healthcare delivered through earlier diagnosis, less invasive treatment options and reduction in hospital stays and rehabilitation times. Recent advances in medical technology have also focused on cost reduction. Medical technology may broadly include medical devices, information technology, biotech, and healthcare services.The impacts of medical technology involve social and ethical issues. For example, physicians can seek objective information from technology rather than read subjective patient reports.A major driver of the sector's growth is the consumerization of Medtech. Supported by the widespread availability of smartphones and tablets, providers can reach a large audience at low cost, a trend that stands to be consolidated as wearable technologies spread throughout the market.In the years 2010–2015, venture funding has grown 200%, allowing US$11.7 billion to flow into health tech businesses from over 30,000 investors in the space. Types of Technology Medical technology has evolved into smaller portable devices, for instance, smartphones, touchscreens, tablets, laptops, digital ink, voice and face recognition and more. With this technology, innovations like electronic health records (EHR), health information exchange (HIE), Nationwide Health Information Network (NwHIN), personal health records (PHRs), patient portals, nanomedicine, genome-based personalized medicine, Geographical Positioning System (GPS), radio frequency identification (RFID), telemedicine, clinical decision support (CDS), mobile home health care and cloud computing came to exist.Medical imaging and Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have been long used and proven Medical Technologies for medical research, patient reviewing, and treatment analyzing. With the advancement of imagining technologies, including the use of faster and more data, higher resolution images, and specialist automation software, the capabilities of medical imaging technology are growing and yielding better results. As the imaging hardware and software evolve this means that patients will need to use less contrasting agents, and also spend less time and money.Further advancement in healthcare is electromagnetic (EM) technology guidance systems, used in medical procedures, allowing real-time visualization and navigation for the placement of medical devices inside the human body. For example, a neuro-navigated catheter is inserted into the brain, or a feeding tube placement in the stomach or small intestine, as demonstrated by the ENvue System. ENvue is an advanced electromagnetic navigation system for enteral feeding tube placement. The system uses a field generator and several EM sensors enabling proper scaling of the display to the patient’s body contour, and real-time view of the feeding tube tip location and direction, which helps the medical staff ensure correct placement and avoid placement of the tube in the lungs. 3D printing is another major development in healthcare. It can be used to produce specialized splints, prostheses, parts for medical devices and inert implants. The end goal of 3D printing is being able to print out customized replaceable body parts. In the following section, it will explain more about 3D printing in healthcare. New types of technologies also include artificial intelligence and robots. 3D printing 3D printing is the use of specialized machines, software programs and materials to automate the process of building certain objects. It is having a rapid growth in the prosthesis, medical implants, novel drug formulations and the bioprinting of human tissues and organs.Companies such as Surgical Theater, provide new technology that is capable of capturing 3D virtual images of patients' brains to use as practice for operations. 3D printing allows medical companies to produce prototypes to practice before an operation created with artificial tissue.3D printing technologies are great for bio-medicine because the materials that are used to make allow the fabrication with control over many design features. 3D printing also has the benefits of affordable customization, more efficient designs, and saving more time. 3D printing is precise to design pills to house several drugs due to different release times. The technology allows the pills to transport to the targeted area and degrade safely in the body. As such, pills can be designed more efficiently and conveniently. In the future, doctors might be giving a digital file of printing instructions instead of a prescription.Besides, 3D printing will be more useful in medical implants. An example includes a surgical team that has designed a tracheal splint made by 3D printing to improve the respiration of a patient. This example shows the potential of 3D printing, which allows physicians to develop new implant and instrument designs easily.Overall, in the future of medicine, 3D printing will be crucial as it can be used in surgical planning, artificial and prosthetic devices, drugs, and medical implants. Artificial Intelligence Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a program that enables computers to sense, reason, act and adapt. AI is not new, but it is growing rapidly and tremendously. AI can now deal with large data sets, solve problems, and provide more efficient operation. AI will be more potential in healthcare because it provides easier accessibility of information, improves healthcare, and reduce cost. There are different factors that drive AI in healthcare, but the two most important are economics and the advent of big data analytics. Costs, new payment options, and people's desire to improve health outcomes are the primary economic drivers of the AI. Based on the reading, AI can save $150 million annually in the US by 2026. Also, AI growth is expected to reach $6.6 million by 2021. Big data analytics is another big driver because we are in the age of big data. The data is extremely helpful to assist the integration of AI in healthcare because it ensures the execution of complex tasks, quality, and efficiency. Applications of Artificial Intelligence AI brings many benefits to the healthcare industry. AI helps to detect diseases, administer chronic conditions, deliver health services, and discover the drug. Also, AI has the potential to address important health challenges. In healthcare organizations, AI is able to plan and relocate resources. AI is able to match patients with healthcare providers that meet their needs. AI also helps improve the healthcare experience by using an app to identify patients' anxieties. In medical research, AI helps to analyze and evaluate the patterns and complex data. For instance, AI is important in drug discovery because it can search relevant studies and analyze different kinds of data. In clinical care, AI helps to detect diseases, analyze clinical data, publications, and guidelines. As such, AI aids to find the best treatments for the patients. Other uses of AI in clinical care include medical imaging, echocardiography, screening, and surgery. Education Medical virtual reality provides doctors multiple surgical scenarios that could happen and allows them to practice and prepare themselves for these situations. It also permits medical students a hands-on experience of different procedures without the consequences of making potential mistakes. ORamaVR is one of the leading companies that employ such medical virtual reality technologies to transform medical education (knowledge) and training (skills) to improve patient outcomes, reduce surgical errors and training time and democratize medical education and training. Robots Modern robotics have made huge progress and contribution to healthcare. Robots can help doctors in performing variety tasks. Robotics adoption is increasing tremendously in hospitals . The following are different ways to improve healthcare by using robots: Surgical robots are one of the robotic systems, which allows a surgeon to bend and rotate tissues in a more flexible and efficient way. The system is equipped with a 3D magnification vision system that can translate the hand movements of the surgeon to be precise in-order to perform a surgery with minimal incisions. Other robotics systems include the ability to diagnose and treat cancers. Many scientists began working on creating a next-generation robot system to assist the surgeon in performing knee and other bone replacement surgeries.Assistant robots will also be important to help reduce the workload for regular medical staff. They can help nurses with simple and time-consuming tasks like carrying multiple racks of medicines, lab specimen or other sensitive materials.Shortly, robotic pills are expected to reduce the number of surgeries. They can be moved inside a patient and delivered to the desired area. In addition, they can conduct biopsies, film the area and clear clogged arteries. Overall, medical robots are extremely useful in assisting physicians; however, it might take time to be professionally trained working with medical robots and for the robots to respond to a clinician's instructions. As such, many researchers and startups were working constantly to provide solutions to these challenges. Assistive Technologies Assistive technologies are products designed to provide accessibility to individuals who have physical or cognitive problems or disabilities. They aim to improve the quality of life with assistive technologies. The range of assistive technologies is broad, ranging from low-tech solutions to physical hardware, to technical devices. There are four areas of assistive technologies, which include visual impairment, hearing impairment, physical limitations, cognitive limitations. There are many benefits of assistive technologies. They enable individuals to care for themselves, work, study, access information easily, improve independence and communication, and lastly participate fully in community life. Consumer-driven healthcare software As part of an ongoing trend towards consumer-driven healthcare, websites or apps which provide more information on health care quality and price to help patients choose their providers have grown. As of 2017, the sites with the most number of reviews in descending order included Healthgrades, Vitals.com, and RateMDs.com. Yelp, Google, and Facebook also host reviews with a large amount of traffic, although as of 2017 they had fewer medical reviews per doctor. Disputes around online reviews can lead to websites by health professionals alleging defamation. In 2018 Vitals.com was purchased by WebMD which is owned by Internet Brands.Patient safety organizations and government programs which have historically assessed quality have made their data more accessible over the internet; notable examples include the HospitalCompare by CMS and the LeapFrog Group's hospitalsafetygrade.org.Patient-oriented software may also help in other ways, including general education and appointments.Disclosure of legal disputes including medical license complaints or malpractice lawsuits has also been made easier. Every state discloses license status and at least some disciplinary action to the public, but as of 2018, this was not accessible via the internet for a few states. : 78 Consumers can look up medical licenses in a national database, DocInfo.org, maintained by the medical licensing organizations which contains limited details. Other tools include DocFinder at docfinder.docboard.org and certificationmatters.org from the American Board of Medical Specialties. In some cases more information is available from a mailed or walk-in request than the internet; for example, the Medical Board of California removes dismissed accusations from website profiles, but these are still available from a written or walk-in request, or a lookup in a separate database. The trend to disclosure is controversial and generate significant public debate, particularly about opening up the National Practitioner Data Bank. In 1996, Massachusetts became the first state to require detailed disclosure of malpractice claims. Self-Monitoring Smartphones, tablets, and wearable computers have allowed people to monitor their health. These devices run numerous applications that are designed to provide simple health services and the monitoring of one's health with finding as critical problems to health as possible . An example of this is Fitbit, a fitness tracker that is worn on the user's wrist. This wearable technology allows people to track their steps, heart rate, floors climbed, miles walked, active minutes, and even sleep patterns. The data collected and analyzed allow users not just to keep track of their health but also help manage it, particularly through its capability to identify health risk factors.There is also the case of the Internet, which serves as a repository of information and expert content that can be used to self-diagnose instead of going to their doctor. For instance, one need only enumerate symptoms as search parameters at Google and the search engine could identify the illness from the list of contents uploaded to the World Wide Web, particularly those provided by expert/medical sources. These advances may eventually have some effect on doctor visits from patients and change the role of the health professionals from gatekeeper to secondary care to facilitator of information interpretation and decision-making. Apart from basic services provided by Google in Search, there are also companies such as WebMD that already offer dedicated symptom-checking apps. Technology testing All medical equipment introduced commercially must meet both United States and international regulations. The devices are tested on their material, effects on the human body, all components including devices that have other devices included with them, and the mechanical aspects.The Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act of 2002 was created to speed up the FDA's approval process of medical technology by introducing sponsor user fees for a faster review time with predetermined performance targets for review time. In addition, 36 devices and apps were approved by the FDA in 2016. Careers There are numerous careers to choose from in health technology in the USA. Listed below are some job titles and average salaries. Athletic Trainer,Mean Salary: $41,340. Athletic trainers treat athletes and other individuals who have sustained injuries. They also teach people how to prevent injuries. They perform their job under the supervision of physicians. Dental Hygienist, Mean Salary: $67,340. Dental hygienists provide preventive dental care and teach patients how to maintain good oral health. They usually work under dentists' supervision. Clinical Laboratory Scientists, Technicians, and Technologists, Mean Salary: $51,770. Lab technicians and technologists perform laboratory tests and procedures. Technicians work under the supervision of a laboratory technologist or laboratory manager. Nuclear Medicine Technologist, Mean Salary: $67,910. Nuclear medicine technologists prepare and administer radiopharmaceuticals, radioactive drugs, to patients to treat or diagnose diseases. Pharmacy Technician, Mean Salary: $28,070. Pharmacy technicians assist pharmacists with the preparation of prescription medications for customers. Allied Professions The term medical technology may also refer to the duties performed by clinical laboratory professionals or medical technologists in various settings within the public and private sectors. The work of these professionals encompasses clinical applications of chemistry, genetics, hematology, immunohematology (blood banking), immunology, microbiology, serology, urinalysis, and miscellaneous body fluid analysis. Depending on location, educational level, and certifying body, these professionals may be referred to as biomedical scientists, medical laboratory scientists (MLS), medical technologists (MT), medical laboratory technologists and medical laboratory technicians. SDM College of Medical Sciences is situated at Manjusreenagar in Dharwad, Karnataka, India. The college is located near to Navalur railway station in between Hubli and Dharwad. The school offers educational courses in medicine and surgery leading to MBBS degree. The college is run by SDM Educational Society, Ujire. The college was established in the year 2003.The college has a well equipped hospital attached to it. SDM College of Medical Sciences is one of the largest private medical institute in the country and the largest in Karnataka. Gallery See also S.D.M College of Engineering and Technology SDM College of Dental Sciences External links Official Website of SDM Medical College Peking Union Medical College (Chinese: 北京协和医学院; pinyin: Běijīng Xiéhé Yīxuéyuàn), founded in 1906, is a national public medical college located in Dongcheng, Beijing, China. It is affiliated with the National Health Commission. The college is part of the Double First-Class Construction. The school operates the Peking Union Medical College Hospital and hosts a joint 8-year clinical medicine science program with Tsinghua University. Peking Union Medical College students in the 8-year clinical medicine program could receive a Peking Union Medical College diploma and degree signed by both the Peking Union Medical College and Tsinghua presidents. It was merged with the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences in 1957 and operates as one single institution with two names directly under the Ministry of Health, now the National Health Commission. It is the first medical school in China to introduce the 8-year MD program. History The Peking Union Medical College Hospital was founded in 1906. The American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, the Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A., the London Missionary Society, and later, the Board of Foreign Missions of the Methodist Episcopal Church, the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, and the Medical Missionary Association of London, together with the then-Chinese government cooperated in the foundation and development of the Medical College and maintained it until 1915. The Rockefeller Foundation was established in 1913 and in 1913-1914 the newly formed Foundation created a Commission, including Dr. Franklin C. McLean, to examine medical education in China. Dr Wu Lien-teh strongly supported the establishment of a new medical college in Peking and made a number of recommendations, all of which were adopted. One of its recommendations was that the Foundation - through a subsidiary organization - should assume financial responsibility for the college. On July 1, 1915, the recently established China Medical Board assumed full support of the Union Medical College, having previously acquired the property. The commission's members had included both William Welch, the first Dean of the Johns Hopkins Medical School, and Simon Flexner. The China Medical Board modeled the school after Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine following the recommendations of the Flexner Report, which set the foundation of modern Medical Education in the United States and Canada. The PUMC was reorganized in 1917 and celebrated its 90th anniversary with a ceremony attended by the president of Johns Hopkins University, the chair of the China Medical Board and representatives of the Rockefeller family and Rockefeller Brothers Fund. John Black Grant, M.D., M.P.H. was a founding faculty member of PUMC and served from 1921 to 1938 as professor and chair of its Department of Public Health. Dr. Grant is the father of James P. Grant, the third executive director of UNICEF. In January 1951, the new government nationalized PUMC, and the institution was accused of being an agent of American cultural imperialism. The Ministry of Health changed its name to China Union Medical College but did not radically alter the curriculum except to switch the language of instruction from English to Chinese. In 1952 the People's Liberation Army took charge of operations and remained in charge until 1956. The curriculum was militarized and shortened to one year in order to train army medical officers, and Soviet models were introduced. The basic orientation to Western medicine was maintained and the staff continued to do research and advanced surgeries.In 1956, autonomy was restored, but the college continued to be criticized for its elitism, cosmopolitanism, and failure to serve the people during periodic campaigns. During the Cultural Revolution, the Peking Union Medical College was closed, and the hospital was renamed the Beijing Anti-Imperialism Hospital (北京反帝醫院). In 1979, it reopened as the Capital University of Medical Sciences then returned to Peking Union Medical College (协和医科大学) in 1985. Current status Peking Union Medical College students traditionally attend Peking University biology department for their pre-meds portion of education. Since 2002, Tsinghua University has held a joint MD program in clinical medical science. Enrollment in the clinical medical science at PUMC is based on individual's performance in high school and National Exam score at graduation. The curriculum of clinical medical science is 8 years, accepts about 90 students each year and includes 2.5 years of pre-medical education in the School of Life Sciences at Tsinghua University; the students have their pre-med studies at Tsinghua University and are considered as students of both PUMC and Tsinghua University. The college also has its independent Graduate School, which recruits from other medical schools around the country. The health care services at Peking Union Medical College Hospital are widely believed in mainland China to be among the most technically advanced. Many prominent political and social leaders in China have sought medical treatment at the PUMC Hospital. Peking Union Medical College has provided generations of leaders for academic and clinical medicine and related areas all over the world. Peking Union Medical College is part of the Project 211 list of universities receiving national funding. Rankings and reputation Peking Union Medical College is listed as one of the top 400 universities in the World University Rankings. It is consistently ranked among the top medical schools in China and has ranked in the top 1 or 2 best nationwide, together with Capital Medical University among Chinese Medical Universities in the recognized Best Chinese Universities Ranking.As of 2022, its Biomedical Engineering and Public Health were ranked in the top 75 in the world, while Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical Sciences and Nursing were placed in the top 150 in the world by the Academic Ranking of World Universities. As of 2022, its Clinical Medicine also ranked #121 globally by the U.S. News & World Report. Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU) Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU), also known as the Shanghai Ranking, is one of the annual publications of world university rankings. It's the first global university ranking with multifarious indicators. Research The medical school is the home to 4 state key labs and 6 WHO collaborating centers including the: WHO Collaborating Center for Health and Biomedical Information WHO Collaborating Center for the Family of International Classification (WHO-FIC) WHO Collaborating Center for Nursing Policy-Making and Quality Management WHO Collaborating Center for Traditional Medicine WHO Collaborating Centre for the Community Control of Hereditary Diseases (Thalassemia) WHO Collaborating Centre for the Prevention and Control of Sexually Transmitted Infections The State Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology The State Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology The State Key Laboratory of Bio-active substances and the function of natural medicines The State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology Hospitals Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Beijing Fuwai Hospital, Beijing Cancer Hospital, Beijing Plastic Surgery Hospital, Beijing Hematology Hospital, Tianjin Skin Disease Hospital, Nanjing Notable alumni Chen Jirui (Jerry Chen) Xin Lu Tang Feifan Pei Hsien Tang Tsai-Fan Yu Liang Wannian Wu Jieping Hyen-taik Kimm Gallery Peking Union Medical College See also Tsinghua Shenzhen International Graduate School Tsinghua-Berkeley Shenzhen Institute References Citations Sources External links Official Website 100 Years: The Rockefeller Foundation, China Medical Board The University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences (UAMS) is a public health sciences university in Little Rock, Arkansas. It is part of the University of Arkansas System and consists of six colleges, seven institutes, several research centers, a statewide network of community education centers, and the UAMS Medical Center. History In 1879, eight physicians, led by P.O. Hooper of Little Rock, each invested $625 to secure a charter for a medical school from Arkansas Industrial University (which later became the University of Arkansas). They purchased the Sperindio Restaurant and Hotel building on West Second Street in Little Rock for $5,000 to house the school, which opened on Oct. 7, 1879 with 22 students. In 1880, Dr. Tom Pinson was the first graduate of the medical school. In 1935, the medical school was moved to a new building next to the City Hospital in Little Rock. The six-story, $450,000 structure gave the School of Medicine a boost in clinical instruction of medical students. The hospital's physicians were members of the school's teaching faculty. The medical school building now houses the University of Arkansas at Little Rock's William H. Bowen School of Law; the hospital building was torn down and became the law school's parking lot. In 1950, a 26-acre (110,000 m2) tract of land on West Markham Street was formally deeded to the university by the Arkansas State Hospital, a state-owned psychiatric hospital. In 1951, the School of Pharmacy was established making it a medical sciences campus, followed in 1953 by the School of Nursing. In 1956, the university, then known as University of Arkansas Medical Center (UAMC), moved to the West Markham campus where it is currently. The university also assumed control of City Hospital, which moved with it; it became known as University Hospital, and more recently UAMS Medical Center. In 1970, the School of Health Related Professions was approved by the University of Arkansas System Board of Trustees. In 1975, the names of the schools on campus were changed to colleges and the executive officer's title became chancellor. In 1980, after being known by several different names through history, the institution's name changed to the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences (UAMS). In 1995, the UAMS Graduate School was granted independent status from the Graduate School at the University of Arkansas. In 2003, the College of Public Health opened. In 2005, the College of Public Health was named for the late Dr. Fay W. Boozman, a UAMS graduate who led the Arkansas Department of Health from 1998 until his death in 2005. Dr. James L. Dennis was named the first chancellor. He was originally named vice president of health sciences in 1970, becoming chancellor in 1975 when the title of the institution's executive officer was changed. To honor his achievements the Section of Pediatrics building was named after him. Dr. Harry P. Ward succeeded Dennis, served 21 years as chancellor and is credited with leading UAMS’ transformation from a small medical school with a charity hospital to an academic health center and research leader. The hospital's Harry P. Ward Tower is named for him. Dr. I. Dodd Wilson followed Ward as chancellor. Wilson came to UAMS in 1986 as a professor and dean of the UAMS College of Medicine from the University of Minnesota Medical School, where he was a professor and vice chairman of the Department of Medicine. He was named chancellor in 2000 and retired in 2009. The I. Dodd Wilson Education building is named in his honor. Dr. Dan Rahn was chosen as the fourth chancellor of UAMS in 2009. He previously served as president of the Medical College of Georgia and vice chancellor for health and medical programs for the University System of Georgia before coming to UAMS. Under Rahn's leadership and facing a budget deficit, UAMS launched efficiency measures that saved more than $100 million. Also during his tenure, UAMS opened a regional campus in Fayetteville and the UAMS Medical Center became the state's only adult Level 1 trauma center. Rahn retired from UAMS in 2017. Just prior to his retirement, UAMS named in his honor the Daniel W. Rahn Interprofessional Education Building, which houses the administrative offices for the colleges of Nursing, Pharmacy, Public Health and the university's interprofessional education program.Dr. Cam Patterson succeeded Rahn, becoming chancellor in June 2018, following a national search. Provost and Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Stephanie Gardner served as interim chancellor from Rahn's 2017 retirement until Patterson's arrival. A cardiologist and health care administrator, Patterson previously served since 2014 as senior vice president and chief operating officer of Weill-Cornell Medical Center and Komansky Children's Hospital/New York Presbyterian Hospital in New York. Organization UAMS has 6 academic units: UAMS College of Medicine UAMS College of Pharmacy UAMS College of Nursing UAMS College of Health Professions Fay W. Boozman College of Public Health UAMS Graduate SchoolUAMS is an academic health center and medical school. It combines its education efforts with the patient care resources of a hospital and outpatient center and the specialized care and research at the following institutes: Winthrop P. Rockefeller Cancer Institute Harvey and Bernice Jones Eye Institute Donald W. Reynolds Institute on Aging Translational Research Institute Psychiatric Research Institute Jackson T. Stephens Spine & Neurosciences Institute Institute for Digital Health & InnovationJohn L. McClellan Memorial Veterans Hospital-VA Medical Center (Central Arkansas Veterans Healthcare System) and Arkansas Children's Hospital are affiliates of UAMS and contracts UAMS's physicians for clinical services. UAMS doctors are on staff at the two facilities and both serve as clinical locations for UAMS students and resident physicians to receive hands-on experience treating patients. The community outreach efforts of UAMS include eight regional centers in Fayetteville, Pine Bluff, El Dorado, Texarkana, Fort Smith, Jonesboro, Helena, and Magnolia; networks of senior health centers and centers for young children with special health care needs; and interactive video education and medical consultation services to community hospitals around the state. UAMS is the state's largest basic and applied research institution, with a total budget of $1.3 billion and more than $100 million in annual research funding, grants and contracts and internationally renowned programs in multiple myeloma, aging and other areas.UAMS is the largest public employer in the state with more than 10,000 employees. As of fall 2015, UAMS had 3,021 students, including 694 medical students, 475 in the College of Pharmacy, 781 in the College of Nursing, 662 in the College of Health Professions, 180 in the College of Public Health and 229 in the Graduate School. There were also 789 resident physicians and 1,429 faculty members.UAMS and its affiliates have a total economic impact in Arkansas of about $3.92 billion per year. Rankings and recognition For 2022, out of 191 medical schools ranked by U S News & World Report UAMS was ranked #39 in Best Medical Schools: Primary Care, #75 in Best Medical Schools: Research, and #35 in Most Graduates Practicing in Primary Care Fields.UAMS was the first medical center in Arkansas and among the first in the nation to implement a star rating system for UAMS physicians.UAMS has the only high-risk pregnancy program, the only adult cystic fibrosis center, and the only liver and kidney transplant program in the state of Arkansas. UAMS is also home to 200 physicians featured in the list of Best Doctors in America, some of which are at Arkansas Children's Hospital and Central Arkansas Veteran's Healthcare System, where UAMS faculty serve as staff.In 2003, UAMS implemented a telehealth program to enhance access to care for high-risk pregnant women living in rural areas.In research, UAMS is working on multiple myeloma, geriatrics, vision, and spine treatment research and is home to the Arkansas Biosciences Institute and the UAMS Bioventures Business Incubator. UAMS is ranked in the top 20% of all US Colleges & Universities in research funding from Federal Government. In 2016, the university's research funding was more than $111.9 million. Clinical researchers at UAMS performed the first outpatient bone marrow transplant in the US, as well as the first gene therapy for multiple myeloma in the US. They are also home to a number of robotic, experimental, and advanced treatment facilities found nowhere else in the state of Arkansas.The school has the second highest yield of all United States Medical Schools. Campus The UAMS campus, now encompassing more than 84 acres (340,000 m2), is located on Markham Street in Little Rock. The university moved to the property in 1956. The campus includes an estimated 5,200,000 square feet (480,000 m2) of buildings. Adjacent to the UAMS campus to the south is the John L. McClellan Veterans Administration Hospital, a part of the Central Arkansas Veterans Healthcare System. To the west are the Arkansas State Hospital grounds. Just south of the VA hospital is Interstate 630, a major east–west thoroughfare through Little Rock. Off campus, UAMS owns or leases several properties, including its eight regional centers, 11 locations across Arkansas of its Kids First pediatric day health clinics, the Westmark building near their main campus, the Westside Campus facility on the Arkansas Children's Hospital campus and a portion of the Freeway Medical building in Little Rock. UAMS also owns over two dozen single family homes and numerous empty lots and parking lots immediately to the east of their main campus. Their master plan calls for the space between Pine street and Cedar street to continue to be purchased when possible as a target zone for future campus growth. Campus expansion In 2004, UAMS embarked on the most significant expansion efforts in its history with a slate of projects to provide additional space for its education, patient care, research and outreach programs. The over $500 million expansion effort encompassed several expansion and renovation projects. The largest project was a 553,282-square-foot (51,401.6 m2), $197 million expansion of the UAMS Medical Center, which includes new patient rooms, operating rooms and space for other programs and services. The hospital expansion was needed to replace the outdated original hospital building, which opened in 1956. The original hospital underwent renovation in phases to host new academic and research facilitiesThe 10-floor new hospital expansion includes 332 adult beds and 64 neonatal beds. The first 9 floors opened on January 19, 2009, with the 10th floor originally being a shell space for future expansion. Due to high hospital bed occupancy, that expansion was launched in 2011.The hospital expansion was built at the site of the old student dormitory, which was imploded on Feb. 19, 2006. The dorm was replaced with a 92,000-square-foot (8,500 m2), 177-unit Residence Hall, which opened to students in August 2006.The six-floor, 110,000-square-foot (10,000 m2) Psychiatric Research Institute facility, a 40-bed facility built adjacent to the hospital expansion, includes space for inpatient and outpatient treatment, education, research and administration. It opened in December 2008. A 1,000-car parking deck was built adjoining and underneath the hospital expansion and PRI. On September 28, 2007, UAMS honored the late Winthrop P. Rockefeller, former Arkansas governor, by renaming its Arkansas Cancer Research Center (ACRC) for him while celebrating the groundbreaking for a major expansion to the facility. The 12-floor, $130 million, 330,000-square-foot (31,000 m2) addition, located just north of the existing 11 story 200,000-square-foot (19,000 m2) facility, allows the institute to treat more patients and host more research into new treatments. The addition opened in July, 2010.A five-floor, 56,000-square-foot (5,200 m2) addition to the Jones Eye Institute opened in April 2006. It is named the Pat Walker Tower for the Springdale philanthropist whose gift made the project possible. In 2010, construction began on a four-floor, 55,000-square-foot (5,100 m2) addition to the Donald W. Reynolds Institute on Aging. The $30.4 million addition was built on top of the existing four-story 96,000-square-foot (8,900 m2) building, established by a similar grant from the Donald W Reynolds Foundation in 2000.An approximately 43,000-square-foot (4,000 m2) I. Dodd Wilson Education Building was completed in 2008, including 14 25-seat classrooms, two 40-seat classrooms and two 214-seat auditoriums.UAMS assisted with the construction of a 148,000-square-foot (13,700 m2) new state hospital in return for the land where the new residence hall is located and most of the old state hospital buildings that transferred to UAMS when construction was completed in 2008. Those renovated buildings now house programs for the College of Health Professions. A regional campus in Northwest Arkansas opened in the 2009–2010 academic year in the former Washington Regional Medical Center hospital. The UAMS Northwest campus further expands UAMS student enrollment in medicine, pharmacy, nursing, and allied health and accommodates additional medical residents.In 2021, UAMS broke ground on two new buildings on the main campus in Little Rock: a new radiation oncology and proton center and a new surgical hospital. Notable people Alumni Warren L. Carpenter, highly decorated Air Force physician involved in early designs of the space suit and the F16 cockpit. William J. Darby, founder of the first nutrition research center at an American medical school at Vanderbilt University, member of the National Academy of Sciences, and widely regarded nutrition scientist. Joycelyn Elders, 15th Surgeon General of the United States and first black Surgeon General. Edith Irby Jones, first black graduate from a medical school in the American South Samuel L. Kountz, pioneer of kidney transplant surgery and co-developer of one of the first kidney perfusion machines. Harry M. Meyer, co-developer of the Rubella vaccine and Assistant Surgeon General of the United States. Volney W. Steele, pathologist and historian of medicine. Established the first pathology laboratory in the state of Montana, and wrote the popular book Bleed, Blister, and Purge: A History of Medicine on the American Frontier. Was also Asst. Prof. of Pathology at UAMS, 1956–1959. Current and former faculty Paul L. Day, discovered vitamin M, demonstrated that it was folic acid, and characterized the effects of folic acid deficiency in non-human primates. Later became the first scientific director of the United States Food and Drug Administration. Jack A. Hinson, developed the first blood tests to measure acetaminophen-cysteine adducts in proteins to aid diagnosis of acetaminophen overdose. Timothy J. O'Brien, developed the CA125 antibody now widely used in a tumor marker test to monitor cancer. Also founded Bioventures, the commercialization arm of UAMS. Cam Patterson, chancellor of UAMS, accomplished scientist in cardiac pathophysiology, former COO of New York Presbyterian / Weill-Cornell Hospital, biotech executive, and author. Phillip L. Rayford, first black department chair at UAMS, and renowned researcher in gastrointestinal physiology. Jerome K. Sherman, expert in cryobiology and pioneer of sperm banking and artificial insemination. Reported the first successful pregnancies using cryopreserved sperm. Volney W. Steele, pathologist and historian of medicine. Established the first pathology laboratory in the state of Montana, and wrote the popular book Bleed, Blister, and Purge: A History of Medicine on the American Frontier. Also a graduate of UAMS. Gazi Yasargil, Turkish medical scientist and neurosurgeon. In 1999 he was honored as Neurosurgery’s Man of the Century 1950–1999 at the Congress of Neurological Surgeons Annual Meeting. He is regarded as one of the greatest neurosurgeons in the modern age. References Further reading Gamble, Vanessa Northington. 'No Struggle, No Fight, No Court Battle': The 1948 Desegregation of the University of Arkansas School of Medicine. Journal of the history of medicine and allied sciences 68.3 (2013): 377-415. online External links Official website University of Benin (UNIBEN) is a public research university located in Benin City, Edo State, Nigeria. It is among the universities owned by the Federal Government of Nigeria and was founded in 1970. The school currently has two campuses with fifteen faculties including a central library called the John Harris Library. The buildings in UNIBEN are sparsely built, they are not close to each other.UNIBEN has a teaching hospital called the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH). History The University of Benin was founded in 1970. It first started as an Institute of Technology until it was recognized as a full-fledged university and accredited by the National Universities Commission (NUC) on 1 July 1971. It became a federal government-owned University on the 1st of April, 1975. John Harris Library The John Harris Library is an academic library on the Ugbowo campus. The Library is named after a pioneer University librarian, John Harris. The parent institution of the library is the University of Benin which was founded in 1970 and formerly called the Institute of Technology.The library, which holds large volumes of collections in print and nonprint format, is situated directly opposite the clinical Student Hostel within the university premises. The books acquired and shelves in the library cover all courses being offered at the university. It is headed by a university librarian who oversees its affairs. The John Harris Library was established through the promulgation of the Institute of Technology edict of 1970 but was accorded the status of a university by the National University Commission (NUC) on 1 July 1971. College of Medical Sciences The UNIBEN College of Medical Sciences teaches medicine and awards a professional degree to physicians and surgeons. The College of Medical Sciences is made up of three schools and an institute, namely: School of Medicine The School of Medicine was established in 1973, then the Faculty of Medicine to Medicine to run a 6-year Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) full-time degree program. The first Dean of the school was Professor T. Belo-Osagie. He was Dean from 1973 to 1975. With the exit of Professor T. Belo-Osagie, Professor K. Diete-Koki became the Dean of the school. Since then, the School has had various Deans and Heads of Departments in the last 30 years. The immediate past Dean of the school was Prof. Dr. (med.) E. Oviasu while the present Dean is Professor Wilson E. Sadoh. School of Basic Medical Science The School of Basic Medical Science was established in December 2003, by the College of Medical Sciences and was finally launched in January 2004. The school undertakes undergraduate programs for B.Sc. In addition, the school provides services for other schools within the college: Schools of Medicine and Dentistry as well as other Faculties in the university: Sciences and School of Pharmacy. The School of Basic Medical Science has the following seven departments: Anatomy Medical Biochemistry Medical Laboratory Science Nursing Science Physiology Physiotherapy Radiography and Radiation Science. School of Dentistry The School of Dentistry coordinates courses and curricula within the college leading to the award of a Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) degree. The School of Dentistry, as it was known then, was established in 1976 and the first batch of students was admitted in the 1976/77 academic session. It was established as an integral part of the College of Medical Sciences in 1975 by an amendment to the Edict establishing the University of Benin. In 2012, with support from the International Federation of Endodontic Associations(IFEA), donations from the University of Texas at Houston School of Dentistry, and the Owen family, Dr. Mbachan Collins Okwen BDS. (Benin), DDS., MBA. introduced regenerative endodontics and modern microscopic endodontics at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital. Faculties in the University of Benin Vice chancellors Kenneth Robson Hill, pioneer Vice Chancellor T.M. Yesufu, the first indigenous Vice Chancellor Adamu Baike, 2nd indigenous Vice Chancellor Grace Alele-Williams, Nigeria's first female vice-chancellor. She served from 1985 to 1991 Andrew Onokheroraye Anao Emmanuel Nwanze Osayuki Godwin Oshodin, 2009-2014 Faraday Osasere Orumwense, 2014- 2019 Lilian Salami, 2019–present Notable alumni Enyinnaya Abaribe, a politician from Abia State Oluwafunke Adeoye, Human rights lawyer Oladipo Agboluaje, actor Emmanuel Agwoje, banker Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, co-founder Access Bank Plc and founder & chairman, Africa Initiative for Governance Josephine Anenih, lawyer and former minister Helen Asemota, professor of biochemistry and biotechnology Lota Chukwu, actress George Edozie, artist Abiodun Falodun, rector, Edo State Polytechnic Babatunde Fashola, former Lagos State governor, who served two terms from May 29, 2007, to May 29, 2015, and current minister of Power, Work & Housing in Nigeria James Ibori, former Governor of Delta State from 29 May 1999 to 29 May 2007 Tom Ilube, founder and CEO, Crossword Cybersecurity Wellington Jighere, 2015 WESPA Scrabble champion Patience Maseli, first female deputy director of Upstream Division at the Department of Petroleum Resources Richard Mofe-Damijo, Nollywood actor Darlington Obaseki, medical doctor and professor John Obayuwana founder and managing director of Polo Luxury Ltd Omoni Oboli, a Nigerian actress, film director and producer Loretta Ogboro-Okor Bright Okpocha (Basketmouth), comedian Suyi Davies Okungbowa, author and scholar Ovie Omo-Agege, senator in the Nigerian eighth senate Osonye Tess Onwueme, writer and professor Victor F. Peretomode, academic and professor Benedict Peters, founder of Aiteo group Amaju Pinnick, President Nigeria Football Federation Ijeoma Uchegbu, scientist and professor Emmanuel Uduaghan, former governor, Delta State Sabina Umeh, singer Chike Onuorah artist and painter Awards Africa Outstanding University of the Year Award, 2023 Notable faculty Alexander Oppenheim (1973–1977), mathematician Photo gallery References External links Official website The KIMS (Kerala Institute of Medical Sciences) Global is a healthcare organization headquartered in Trivandrum with multi-specialty hospitals and health care centres in South India and the Middle East. The KIMS Global started off as KIMS Hospital, a multi-specialty hospital in Trivandrum, the capital of Kerala. The hospital was launched in 2002 and expanded as the KIMS Global, which went through an expansion in 2013 and obtained centres in other parts of the state: Kollam, Kottayam, Perinthalmanna, and Kochi and well as in the Middle East, in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, Oman, United Arab Emirates, and Dubai. In India KIMS Trivandrum: 650-bed multi-speciality quaternary care hospital with 187 ICU beds. KIMS Kottayam: 90 bed hospital with 26 ICU beds KIMS Al Shifa, Perinthalmanna: 600 bed tertiary care hospital KIMS Wellness Clinic, Trivandrum: 12 doctors across 8 specialties KIMS Bibi Hospital: Gynecologic Oncology (Cancer) hospital in Malakpet, Hyderabad KIMS Kollam: 100 bed hospital with 20 ICU beds KIMS Cancer Centre, Trivandrum: Oncology facility operating in the premises of KIMS Trivandrum KIMS Wellness Clinic, Kochi: 8 doctors across 8 specialties In other countries Royal Bahrain Hospital (RBH): 60 bed multi-specialty hospital with 7 critical care beds RBH Medical Centre, Bahrain (RBMC): 7 doctors across 4 specialties (excluding visiting doctors) KIMS Bahrain Medical Centre (KBMC): 21 doctors across 12 specialties KIMS Qatar Medical Centre, Doha (KQMC): 14 doctors across 11 specialties KIMS Oman Hospital, Muscat (KOH): 40 bed hospital with 7 critical care beds BRANCH SUNCITYS Co. LTD. Polyclinic: 28 doctors across 12 specialties KIMS Jarir Medical Centre, Riyadh (KMCR): 12 doctors across 7 specialties KIMS Medical Centre, Dubai (KMCD): 11 doctors across 8 specialties Sikkim Manipal University (SMU), formerly Sikkim Manipal University of Health, Medical and Technological Sciences, is a private university located in Gangtok, Sikkim, India. The Sikkim Manipal University started its journey in 1992, after the signing of an agreement between the Government of Sikkim and the Manipal Education & Medical Group (MEMG). The university was officially established in 1995 as Sikkim Manipal University of Health, Medical and Technological Sciences through The Sikkim Manipal University of Health, Medical and Technological Science Act, 1995. The name was changed to Sikkim Manipal University in 2010 through The Sikkim Manipal University of Health, Medical, and Technological Sciences (Amendment) Act, 2009. Notable alumni Satyarup Siddhanta, B.Tech. (2008) See also List of universities in India References External links Official website Poznan University of Medical Sciences (Polish: Uniwersytet Medyczny im. Karola Marcinkowskiego w Poznaniu) is a prominent Polish medical university, located in the city of Poznań in western Poland. It traces its beginnings to the foundation of Poznań University in 1919, and was formed as a separate institution in 1950. It gained the status of university in 2007. History The history of Poznan University of Medical Sciences started in 1919 when a pharmaceutical department was created at the University of Poznań. A year later (in 1920) the Faculty of Medicine was founded within it (in fact, this faculty existed since 1919 as a part of Poznań Society of Friends of Arts and Sciences). The chair of Dentistry was created in 1929. The first rector of Poznan University was Heliodor Święcicki and first dean of the Faculty of Medicine was Professor Adam Wrzosek. In the late autumn of 1939, the University of Poznań was closed by German occupation authorities, but many of its professors continued to teach. In 1940 an underground University of the Western Lands was formed in Warsaw which comprised the faculties of Medicine, Pharmacy and Dentistry, with most of the faculty coming from the Poznań University. In 1941, the Polish School of Medicine at the University of Edinburgh was founded, where the first dean was surgeon Antoni Jurasz from the University of Poznań. In the last months of the war, during the battle of Poznań, preparations for reopening of the university were begun. The university officially reopened in April 1945, before the end of the war. According to a plan of reform in 1950, the Medical Faculty, with the Department of Dentistry and the Faculty of Pharmacy of University of Poznań, were detached to form an independent school named the University of Medical Sciences. In 1975 a new Faculty of Nursing was founded, and in 1979 a Department of Medical Analytics was opened. In 1984, the Sejm (the Polish national parliament) named the school after Karol Marcinkowski, a distinguished Polish physician and patriot of the first half of the 19th century who had lived in Poznań, and who was a symbol of the highest professional and ethical values in medicine. In 1992 the Faculty of Medicine was divided into Faculty of Medicine I, responsible for the six-year Polish MD program, and Faculty of Medicine II, comprising the divisions of Dentistry, Post Graduate Medical Education and Medicine and Dentistry with English as the teaching language. In 1991, the university introduced programs in English, starting in 1993 with the four-year MD program based entirely on the American curriculum and the requirements of the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) system. A six-year MD program in English based on the European model followed a year later. Both programs have instituted National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME) subject examinations and compulsory completion on USMLE licensing examinations as a requirement for students. Subsequently, PUMS reached the last of its planned English-language based projects with the introduction of a five-year Dentistry program in 2000, and five-year MSc Pharmacy program in 2004, which was replaced by the six-year Pharm. D. program in 2009, and three-year BSc Physiotherapy program in 2009. These programs meet the European requirements. The students of the English programs are represented by the English Programs' Student Union (EPSU). On 27 February 2007 the Polish name of school was changed from Akademia Medyczna im. Karola Marcinkowskiego w Poznaniu to Uniwersytet Medyczny im. Karola Marcinkowskiego w Poznaniu. Science and research While advanced research at the university is carried out in virtually every field of modern medicine, its contribution is most widely recognized in such disciplines as immunology, endocrinology, oncology, nuclear medicine, anaesthesiology, surgery, nephrology, gynaecology and obstetrics (especially perinatology), ecology, parasitic and tropical diseases, AIDS, viral hepatitis, hematology, child oncology, cytophysiology and cytopathology, development of the central nervous system, immunology of skin diseases, clinical pharmacology, genetics, audiology, phoniatrics and optometry. The major research topics in the Faculty of Pharmacy are the stability of drugs, pharmacokinetics and biochemistry, the synthesis and analysis of new therapeutic agents, phytochemistry, toxicology and pharmacology. The fields of research activity of the Faculty of Health Sciences are health promotion, nursing processes and standards in nursing activity. The investigations conducted at the university are presented in several hundred research papers published yearly in professional journals. The university hosts between 5 and 10 major international congresses a year and visits of foreign researchers are a daily routine. The university co-operates regularly with universities in Rennes and Rouen (France), Turku (Finland), Berlin, Göttingen, Halle, Kiel, Magdeburg, Mainz, Munchen Regensburg (Germany), Linköping (Sweden), Oslo University College (Norway), Perugia (Italy), University of Illinois at Chicago (USA). Many university staff members serve on the boards of international professional and scientific associations or are invited to act as advisers by the WHO and IAEA. Lekarsz and Doktor (stopień naukowy) degrees awarded at the university enjoy wide national recognition. In some countries, e.g. Germany, they are accepted with no further confirmation requirements. They are routinely accepted in Sweden, Britain, the United States and Canada. At present more than 1200 graduates of the university practice or research abroad. Many of them are clinical specialists and heads of hospital departments in Europe, North America, South Africa and elsewhere. Scientific research constitutes a significant part of Medical University activity. The scope of scientific research conducted by the university ranges in solving problems of basic medical and clinical studies. There are also research studies to find and discover new pharmaceutical agents. The university develops scientific and educational collaboration within agreements and official contracts with the following Universities (updated on December 1, 2006): Freie Universität, Berlin (Germany) Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg (Germany) Martin-Luther-Universität Halle-Wittenberg (Germany) Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Kiel (Germany) Johannes-Gutenberg Universität, Mainz (Germany) Universität Regensburg (Germany) Université de Rennes 1, Rennes (France) Université Henri-Poincaré, Nancy (France) Universita degli Studi di Perugia (Italy) University of Edinburgh (United Kingdom) Høgskolen i Agder (University of Agder) (Norway) Høgskolen i Oslo (Oslo College) (Norway) Linköpings Universitet (Sweden) Université de Genève (Switzerland) Grodno State Medical University, Grodno (Belarus) Medical University, Vitebsk (Belarus) National University of Pharmacy, Charkow (Ukraine) Danylo Halytsky Lviv National Medical University (Ukraine) State Medical and Pharmaceutical University Nicolae Testemitanu, Chisinau (Moldova) Zhong Shang Da Xue (Sun Yat-sen University) (China) Nara Joshi Daigaku (Nara Women's University) (Japan) Divine Word University, Madang (Papua New Guinea) Kaohsiung Medical University (Taiwan) Baltimore College of Dental Surgery (United States) Indiana University Bloomington (USA) University of Illinois at Chicago, (USA) Widener University, Chester Pennsylvania (USA) University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine (USA) Illinois College of Optometry, Chicago (USA) School Authorities President: Prof. Jacek Wysocki Vice-President for Science and International Relations: Prof. Zenon Kokot Vice-President for Clinical Affairs and Postgraduate Studies: Prof. Grzegorz Oszkinis Vice-President for Student Affairs: Assoc. Prof. Mariusz Puszczewicz Faculties Faculty of Medicine I Faculty of Medicine II (English Language Programs)Faculty of Medicine II North American Admissions and Financial AidFaculty of Pharmacy Faculty of Health Sciences Clinical Hospitals University teaching and research mainly based on co-operation with five Clinical Hospitals and also on the other city and voivodship hospitals Official site of Clinical Hospital No. 1 Official site of Clinical Hospital No. 2 Official site of Clinical Hospital No. 3 Official site of Clinical Hospital No. 4 Official site of Clinical Hospital No. 5 Alumni Andrzej Grzybowski, ophthalmologist, academic, medical researcher, and medical journal editor Maria Siemionow received both her MD and PhD from Poznan. She is a surgeon at the Cleveland Clinic who gained public notice in December 2008 when she led a team of six surgeons in a 22-hour surgery, performing the first face transplant in the United States on patient Connie Culp. University of Medical Science(s) is a title used by many educational institutions: China Bethune University of Medical Sciences, merged in 2000 with Jilin University Capital University of Medical Sciences, Beijing Chongqing University of Medical Sciences, now called Chongqing Medical University Sun Yat-sen University of Medical Sciences, 1886-1925 Iran Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences Arak University of Medical Sciences Ardabil University of Medical Sciences Babol University of Medical Sciences Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences Birjand University of Medical Sciences Bushehr University of Medical Sciences Fatemiye University of Medical Sciences, Qom Gilan University of Medical Sciences Hamedan University of Medical Sciences Ilam University of Medical Sciences Iran University of Medical Sciences Isfahan University of Medical Sciences Kashan University of Medical Sciences Kerman University of Medical Sciences Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences Mashhad University of Medical Sciences Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences Qazvin University of Medical Sciences Qom University of Medical Sciences Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, formerly the National University of Iran Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences and Health Services Shahrekord University of Medical Sciences Shiraz University of Medical Sciences Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, split in 1985 from the University of Tabriz Tehran University of Medical Sciences Torbat Heydarieh University of Medical Sciences Urmia University of Medical Sciences Japan Gifu University of Medical Science Morinomiya University of Medical Sciences Shiga University of Medical Science Suzuka University of Medical Science Other The University of Medical Sciences of Mahidol University, Thailand Semmelweis University of Medical Sciences, Hungary University of Medical Sciences, Ondo, Nigeria Poznan University of Medical Sciences, Poland University of Medical Sciences, Cienfuegos, Cuba Kerala University of Health Sciences National University of Medical Sciences, PakistanIt may also refer to: Allianze University College of Medical Sciences, Malaysia Kathmandu University School of Medical Sciences, Nepal Liaquat University of Medical and Health Sciences, Pakistan Nova Southeastern University College of Medical Sciences, Florida, USA University College of Medical Sciences, Delhi, India University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, USA University of Medical Sciences and Technology, Sudan University of Medical Sciences, Turkey Tehran University of Medical Sciences (TUMS) (Persian: دانشگاه علوم پزشکی تهران, Danushgah-e 'lum Pezeshki-ye Tehran) is the largest and most highly ranked medical university of Iran. In September 2008, Iran's Minister of Health, Treatment, and Medical Education, Dr. Lankarani, called TUMS a pioneer in research throughout the country with a noticeable lead over its peer universities.Located in Tehran adjacent to the main University of Tehran campus, it was founded as part of Dar ol-Fonoon in 1851, and later absorbed into the University of Tehran in 1934. It finally separated from University of Tehran by parliamentary legislation in 1986, coming under the new Ministry of Health, Treatment, and Medical Education. TUMS is ranked as one of Iran's top research universities, with an annual research budget of over 300 billion Rials from the government. The school trains over 13,000 students (40% of whom are women) in approximately 290 undergraduate, graduate and non-degree (short-course) programs. The university has 11 schools, operates 16 teaching hospitals, is equipped with over 44 libraries, and publishes 58 journals, some in collaboration with academic societies.The university operates The National Museum of Medical Sciences History as well. TUMS is accredited with Premier Status by Accreditation Service for International Colleges and Universities (ASIC UK) History Before the establishment of Dar-ol-Fonoon, there had been systematic medical education in Iran dated back to ancient times, as noted in Avesta.Large academic medical education during Sassanid era was embodied in Gundihapur University [see Wikipedia article Ancient Iranian medicine - Wikipedia] Systematic mastery and pupillage created early high quality research and practice of all main disciplines, surgery, medicine, pharmaceuticals and psychology: Of all the healers O Spitama Zarathustra, namely those who heal with the knife, with herbs, and with sacred incantations, the last one is the most potent as he heals from the very source of diseases. — Ardibesht Yasht . In 1851, Dar-ol-Fonoon School was established and medicine was considered as one of its main subjects. The first group of the Schools' graduates started practicing medicine in 1856. The Dar-ol-Fonoon School of Medicine can be considered as the first modern college of higher education in Iran. In 1918, medicine was deleted from the syllabus of Dar-ol-Fonoon and started to be taught in a separate independent college named College of Medicine and in the Same year, the first women's hospital was officially inaugurated. In 1934, the National Consultative Assembly ratified establishment of the University of Tehran to bring together the institutions of higher education, and the government purchased a 200,000 square meter tract in Tehran. The University of Tehran actually started its operation with the six Schools of Medicine, Law, Political Sciences, Science, Letters, Engineering, and Theology. At the same time, the main chairs of the School of Medicine including medicine, pharmacy, and dentistry were determined. On February 4, 1934, the Department of Anatomy was inaugurated as the first step to establishing the School of Medicine in the main campus of University of Tehran. In 1939, the university started offering doctorate degrees in pharmacy and dentistry. In the following year, all of the hospitals in Tehran were affiliated to the School of Medicine. Finally, in 1956 the Schools of Pharmacy and Dentistry were granted their academic independence. Modern history In 1986, the Islamic Consultative Assembly ratified a bill for the establishment of the Ministry of Health, Treatment, and Medical Education. Since then, education of medicine and related disciplines, which had been performed under the supervision of the Ministry of Science, Research and Technology came under the jurisdiction of Ministry of Health, Treatment, and Medical Education. In line with this policy, universities of medical sciences were established and Tehran University of Medical Sciences, separating from the University of Tehran, came to existence to continue operating independently. Upon the emergence of regional health organizations in the universities of medical sciences in 1994, the mentioned universities, including Tehran University of Medical Sciences, came to assume the responsibility of rendering health care services while offering medical education. Schools Tehran University of Medical Sciences includes 10 different Schools (11 with Virtual School) which deal with various academical studies related to medical sciences. School of Advanced Technologies in Medicine One of the Medical Schools is School of Advanced Technologies in Medicine (SATIM). This school was established in 2008 and tried to focus on connection between science and technology. Now it offers 5 major fields which accept Ph.D. students including Medical Biotechnology, Molecular Medicine, Medical Nanotechnology, Tissue Engineering and Applied Cell Sciences, and Neurosciences and Addiction Studies. Two of the fields also accept M.Sc. students as well (Medical Biotechnology and Medical Nanotechnology). Department of Medical Biotechnology Department of Medical Biotechnology was one of the three initial fields in the time of school establishment in 2008. It now accepts students in both M.Sc. and Ph.D. levels. It also accept international students based on the university policies. International students could also apply for different financial scholarships. Using different advanced biotechnology and bioinformatics techniques, academic members try to fill the gap between university and industry in medical sciences. The university campus The place where the anatomy hall, as the first part of the School of Medicine, was built 80 years ago was in the most northern point of the capital city of Tehran. Over the years, the capital city grew faster, and the university campus came to be located in the city center, thus becoming an active center for academic, cultural, political, and social activities of this big crowded city. The central campus of Tehran University of Medical Sciences is the location of most of the university buildings including the School of Medicine, Pharmacy, Public Health and associated disciplines. Today, what is located at the central campus is a complex of the oldest Schools of Medicine, Pharmacy, Dentistry, and Public Health. In addition to the central campus, the University Headquarters is also located nearby, at the Quds-Keshavarz Intersection. Following the establishment of new schools and due to the limited physical area of the central campus, other schools were moved to different places. Kooy-e-Daneshgah, the main complex of students' dormitories, is located in a green-forested area not far from the central campus. In addition to Kooy-e-Daneshgah, there are other students living complexes in different parts of the city as well as 5 dormitories dedicated to housing international students. TUMS International Campus The International Campus was founded in 2006 as the international division of Tehran University of Medical Sciences. The doors of TUMS and its International Campus are open to all international students coming from diverse cultures and backgrounds. In order to provide equal opportunities for talented students who come from a modest background, scholarships and financial aids are available. Pharmacies Taleghani Shahid Abedini Dr. Amini BooAli Isar 13 aban Sina Imam Khomeini hospital Dr. Shari'ati hospital Razi hospital Children Hospital Subspecialty of 13 Aban Research centers Iran has recently achieved the highest science and technology growth rate in the world. Tehran University of Medical Sciences has the largest network of research in medical sciences. Beside the researches done in departments of its faculties, it is now handling over 100 research centers in Iran, some of them listed below. More than one third of science production in Iran takes place in TUMS.13 research institutes with over 100 research centers are in charge of Tehran University of Medical Science research affairs. Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Institute Endocrinology and Metabolism Molecular-Cellular Sciences Institute Endocrinology and Metabolism Clinical Sciences Institute Endocrinology and Metabolism Population Sciences Institute The Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (TIPS) Neuroscience Institute Digestive Diseases Research Institute Cardiovascular Diseases Research Institute Iranian Institute for reduction of High-Risk Behaviors Institute for Environmental Research Advanced Medical Technologies and Equipment Institute Cancer Research Institute Dental Research Institute Family Health Research Institute International campus In 2006, a group of professors and researchers established the International Campus of Tehran University of Medical Sciences (TUMS-IC). Their main goal was to break new ground in education excellence in the medical fields with an international outlook. Of the over 18,000 students studying at Tehran University of Medical Sciences, there are 781 students enrolled at the International Campus. The current class is matched into the following specialties: 367 in medicine, 191 in dentistry, and 148 in pharmacy. There are 75 students at PhD and MSc levels who study in nutrition and public health programs. In 2012, the vice-chancellor office for International Affairs and Global Strategies was created and Dr. Ali Arab Kheradmand became the vice-chancellor for International Affairs and Global Strategies. This year, of 45,000 applicants, 150 students will join the International Campus. Sub-specialist in Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Ali Arab Kheradmand the president of the International Campus since its foundation in 2006, is the new vice-chancellor for International Affairs and Global Strategies. Admissions TUMS has well-established admissions processes for students. Iranian students must submit the results of their National Exam, also known as concours, and have a successful interview with the members of the Selection Committee. International students, after having completed an online application form for international admissions, submit their education documents, copy of previous educational degree(s), English proficiency documents, letters of recommendation, letter of motivation, résumé or C.V., passport-size photograph, and a copy of passport's main pages. The Admissions Committee evaluates the qualifications of each student profile and has final authority to admit students. Students have access to a Scholarship Committee. Student body As of February 2012, about 150 international students are enrolled at TUMS-IC. The coed student body brings together the heritage and culture of 65 nations. The school trains over 19,408 students (40% of which are women) in over 172 postgraduate programs. Teaching the medical sciences can have implications for cultural values and faith-based beliefs. To respect all values and beliefs, the curriculum, classroom teaching, and the student housing centers are adapted for a culturally diverse student and faculty population. Upon their graduation, students will practice medicine in every part of the world. To prepare them, the school offers an education experience and curriculum. Rankings Tehran University of Medical Sciences is ranked the first among Iranian Medical Sciences Universities by Ministry of Health for seven continuous years. International ranking of Tehran University of Medical Sciences in recent years is as follows: U.S. News & World Report2017: Medicine: 249 2017: Pharmacy & Pharmacology: 86 QS World University Rankings2017: International rank: 251-300 Medicine: 251 Pharmacy & Pharmacology: 201 Life Sciences and Medicine: 401 Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU/Shanghai Ranking)> 2009: International rank : 402-501 Times higher education ( In association with QS )2009: International rank: 368, Life Sciences & Biomedicine: 298 National ranking 2017: National rank: 1 Notable alumni and faculty TUMS has trained many distinguished national and international physicians and scientists. Notable graduates of Tehran University of Medical Sciences are: Mohammad Gharib, father of Iranian pediatrics Moslem Bahadori, AIDS specialist Minoo Mohraz Abbas Shafiee pharmaceutical chemist Mohammad-Reza Zarrindast Ahmad Reza Dehpour Fereydoun Davatchi Alireza Mashaghi Reza Malekzadeh Parviz Kambin, pioneer of minimally invasive spinal surgery Gallery See also List of Islamic educational institutions Healthcare in Iran Daru-Journal of Faculty of Pharmacy Higher education in Iran List of hospitals in Iran List of Tehran University people References External links Official website Official Persian website TUMS Public Relations Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (Urdu: شیر ای کشمیر انسٹی ٹیوٹ آف میڈیکل سائنسز), often abbreviated as SKIMS, is the largest medical institute under State Legislature Act in Srinagar, in the Indian union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.SKIMS is the only medical university of the union territory of J&K, headed by a Director who is also the Ex-officio Secretary to the Government. Lieutenant Governor J&K is the Chairperson of the SKIMS governing body that performs the role of the cabinet for the semi-autonomous super-speciality hospital and the Institute under State Legislature Act (university like status). In addition to the Institute under State Legislature Act and the main hospital, the institute comprises the State Cancer Institute, Maternity Hospital, Nursing college, Paramedical college, and an affiliated medical college & hospital which is on the city outskirts at Bemina. History The construction commenced in the year 1976. The institute was partially commissioned on 5 December 1982. On 19 August 1983, Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences was granted University like status by Institute under State Legislature Act status. Every year the institute celebrates 5 December as its foundation day that coincides with the birthdate of Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah. Departments SKIMS has 5000+ employees working for it and incorporates more than 50 departments, including medicine and allied, surgery and allied, and other departments. The medical faculty of each department consists of Professors, Additional Professors, Associate Professors, Assistant Professors, and Senior and Junior residents where the senior-most professor functions as the head. Academics Post doctoral (DM/MCH/DrNB) courses D.M (Doctorate in Medicine) Cardiology Gastroenterology Endocrinology Medical Oncology Neurology Nephrology Clinical HematologyM.Ch (Magister Chirurgia) Cardiac Surgery Neuro Surgery Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery Pediatric Surgery Urology Surgical GastroenterologyDrNB (Doctorate of National Board) Cardiac-anesthesiology Neuro-anesthesiology Nuclear Medicine Doctoral Ph.D (Doctor of Philosophy) Clinical Biochemistry Clinical Pharmacology Immunology & Molecular Medicine Nuclear Medicine Post graduate (MD/MS) courses MD (Doctor of Medicine) Anesthesiology Community Medicine Emergency Medicine General Medicine Hospital Administration Microbiology Obstetrics & Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics Radiotherapy Radio-DiagnosisMS (Master of Surgery) General Surgery Ophthalmology Orthopedics Fellowships Hand and Microsurgery Interventional Cardiology Minimal Access Surgery Spine Surgery Medical technology courses M.Sc (Master of Science) Medical Lab. Technology Medical Technology Neonatal Sciences Technology Anaesthesia Critical Care & Operation Theatre Technology Cardiac Lab. Technology Radiotherapy Technology Radio-Diagnosis Technology Dialysis Technology Nuclear Medicine Technology DMRIT (Nuclear Medicine Technology) MRT (Medical Record Technician)B.Sc (Bachelor of Science) Radiation Technology Anesthesia Critical Care & Operation Theater Technology Medical Lab Technology Medical Technology Perfusionist Technology Radiology & Imaging Technology Undergraduate medical courses M.B.B.S Nursing courses M.Sc. Nursing B.Sc. Nursing See also 90 Feet Road References External links Official website A medical laboratory or clinical laboratory is a laboratory where tests are conducted out on clinical specimens to obtain information about the health of a patient to aid in diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of disease. Clinical medical laboratories are an example of applied science, as opposed to research laboratories that focus on basic science, such as found in some academic institutions. Medical laboratories vary in size and complexity and so offer a variety of testing services. More comprehensive services can be found in acute-care hospitals and medical centers, where 70% of clinical decisions are based on laboratory testing. Doctors offices and clinics, as well as skilled nursing and long-term care facilities, may have laboratories that provide more basic testing services. Commercial medical laboratories operate as independent businesses and provide testing that is otherwise not provided in other settings due to low test volume or complexity. Departments In hospitals and other patient-care settings, laboratory medicine is provided by the Department of Pathology and Medical Laboratory, and generally divided into two sections, each of which will be subdivided into multiple specialty areas. The two sections are: Anatomic pathology: areas included here are histopathology, cytopathology, electron microscopy, and gross pathology. Medical Laboratory, which typically includes the following areas:Clinical microbiology: This encompasses several different sciences, including bacteriology, virology, parasitology, immunology, and mycology. Clinical chemistry: This area typically includes automated analysis of blood specimens, including tests related to enzymology, toxicology and endocrinology. Hematology: This area includes automated and manual analysis of blood cells. It also often includes coagulation. Blood bank involves the testing of blood specimens in order to provide blood transfusion and related services. Molecular diagnostics DNA testing may be done here, along with a subspecialty known as cytogenetics. Reproductive biology testing is available in some laboratories, including Semen analysis, Sperm bank and assisted reproductive technology.Layouts of clinical laboratories in health institutions vary greatly from one facility to another. For instance, some health facilities have a single laboratory for the microbiology section, while others have a separate lab for each specialty area. The following is an example of a typical breakdown of the responsibilities of each area: Microbiology includes culturing of the bacteria in clinical specimens, such as feces, urine, blood, sputum, cerebrospinal fluid, and synovial fluid, as well as possible infected tissue. The work here is mainly concerned with cultures, to look for suspected pathogens which, if found, are further identified based on biochemical tests. Also, sensitivity testing is carried out to determine whether the pathogen is sensitive or resistant to a suggested medicine. Results are reported with the identified organism(s) and the type and amount of drug(s) that should be prescribed for the patient. Parasitology is where specimens are examined for parasites. For example, fecal samples may be examined for evidence of intestinal parasites such as tapeworms or hookworms. Virology is concerned with identification of viruses in specimens such as blood, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid. Hematology analyzes whole blood specimens to perform full blood counts, and includes the examination of blood films. Other specialized tests include cell counts on various bodily fluids. Coagulation testing determines various blood clotting times, coagulation factors, and platelet function. Clinical biochemistry commonly performs dozens of different tests on serum or plasma. These tests, mostly automated, includes quantitative testing for a wide array of substances, such as lipids, blood sugar, enzymes, and hormones. Toxicology is mainly focused on testing for pharmaceutical and recreational drugs. Urine and blood samples are the common specimens. Immunology/Serology uses the process of antigen-antibody interaction as a diagnostic tool. Compatibility of transplanted organs may also be determined with these methods. Immunohematology, or blood bank determines blood groups, and performs compatibility testing on donor blood and recipients. It also prepares blood components, derivatives, and products for transfusion. This area determines a patient's blood type and Rh status, checks for antibodies to common antigens found on red blood cells, and cross matches units that are negative for the antigen. Urinalysis tests urine for many analysts, including microscopically. If more precise quantification of urine chemicals is required, the specimen is processed in the clinical biochemistry lab. Histopathology processes solid tissue removed from the body (biopsies) for evaluation at the microscopic level. Cytopathology examines smears of cells from all over the body (such as from the cervix) for evidence of inflammation, cancer, and other conditions. Molecular diagnostics includes specialized tests involving DNA and RNA analysis. Cytogenetics involves using blood and other cells to produce a DNA karyotype. This can be helpful in cases of prenatal diagnosis (e.g. Down's syndrome) as well as in some cancers which can be identified by the presence of abnormal chromosomes. Surgical pathology examines organs, limbs, tumors, fetuses, and other tissues biopsied in surgery such as breast mastectomies. Medical laboratory staff The staff of clinical laboratories may include: Pathologist Clinical biochemist Laboratory assistant (LA) Laboratory manager Biomedical scientist (BMS) in the UK, Medical laboratory scientist (MT, MLS or CLS) in the US or Medical laboratory technologist in Canada Medical laboratory technician/clinical laboratory technician (MLT or CLT in US) Medical laboratory assistant (MLA) Phlebotomist (PBT) Histology technician Labor shortages The United States has a documented shortage of working laboratory professionals. For example, as of 2016 vacancy rates for Medical Laboratory Scientists ranged from 5% to 9% for various departments. The decline is primarily due to retirements, and to at-capacity educational programs that cannot expand which limits the number of new graduates. Professional organizations and some state educational systems are responding by developing ways to promote the lab professions in an effort to combat this shortage. In addition, the vacancy rates for the MLS were tested again in 2018. The percentage range for the various departments has developed a broader range of 4% to as high as 13%. The higher numbers were seen in the Phlebotomy and Immunology. Microbiology was another department that has had a struggle with vacancies. Their average in the 2018 survey was around 10-11% vacancy rate across the United States. Recruitment campaigns, funding for college programs, and better salaries for the laboratory workers are a few ways they are focusing to decrease the vacancy rate. The National Center For Workforce Analysis has estimated that by 2025 there will be a 24% increase in demand for lab professionals. Highlighted by the COVID-19 pandemic, work is being done to address this shortage including bringing pathology and laboratory medicine into the conversation surrounding access to healthcare. COVID-19 brought the laboratory to the attention of the government and the media, thus giving opportunity for the staffing shortages as well as the resource challenges to be heard and dealt with. Types of laboratory In most developed countries, there are two main types of lab processing the majority of medical specimens. Hospital laboratories are attached to a hospital, and perform tests on their patients. Private (or community) laboratories receive samples from general practitioners, insurance companies, clinical research sites and other health clinics for analysis. For extremely specialised tests, samples may go to a research laboratory. Some tests involve specimens sent between different labs for uncommon tests. For example, in some cases it may be more cost effective if a particular laboratory specializes in a less common tests, receiving specimens (and payment) from other labs, while sending other specimens to other labs for those tests they do not perform. In many countries there are specialized types of medical laboratories according to the types of investigations carried out. Organisations that provide blood products for transfusion to hospitals, such as the Red Cross, will provide access to their reference laboratory for their customers. Some laboratories specialize in Molecular diagnostic and cytogenetic testing, in order to provide information regarding diagnosis and treatment of genetic or cancer-related disorders. Specimen processing and work flow In a hospital setting, sample processing will usually start with a set of samples arriving with a test request, either on a form or electronically via the laboratory information system (LIS). Inpatient specimens will already be labeled with patient and testing information provided by the LIS. Entry of test requests onto the LIS system involves typing (or scanning where barcodes are used) in the laboratory number, and entering the patient identification, as well as any tests requested. This allows laboratory analyzers, computers and staff to recognize what tests are pending, and also gives a location (such as a hospital department, doctor or other customer) for results reporting. Once the specimens are assigned a laboratory number by the LIS, a sticker is typically printed that can be placed on the tubes or specimen containers. This label has a barcode that can be scanned by automated analyzers and test requests uploaded to the analyzer from the LIS. Specimens are prepared for analysis in various ways. For example, chemistry samples are usually centrifuged and the serum or plasma is separated and tested. If the specimen needs to go on more than one analyzer, it can be divided into separate tubes. Many specimens end up in one or more sophisticated automated analysers, that process a fraction of the sample to return one or more test results. Some laboratories use robotic sample handlers (Laboratory automation) to optimize the workflow and reduce the risk of contamination from sample handling by the staff. The work flow in a hospital laboratory is usually heaviest from 2:00 am to 10:00 am. Nurses and doctors generally have their patients tested at least once a day with common tests such as complete blood counts and chemistry profiles. These orders are typically drawn during a morning run by phlebotomists for results to be available in the patient's charts for the attending physicians to consult during their morning rounds. Another busy time for the lab is after 3:00 pm when private practice physician offices are closing. Couriers will pick up specimens that have been drawn throughout the day and deliver them to the lab. Also, couriers will stop at outpatient drawing centers and pick up specimens. These specimens will be processed in the evening and overnight to ensure results will be available the following day. Laboratory informatics The large amount of information processed in laboratories is managed by a system of software programs, computers, and terminology standards that exchange data about patients, test requests, and test results known as a Laboratory information system or LIS. The LIS is often interfaced with the hospital information system, EHR and/or laboratory instruments. Formats for terminologies for test processing and reporting are being standardized with systems such as Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) and Nomenclature for Properties and Units terminology (NPU terminology). These systems enable hospitals and labs to order the correct test requests for each patient, keep track of individual patient and specimen histories, and help guarantee a better quality of results. Results are made available to care providers electronically or by printed hard copies for patient charts. Result analysis, validation and interpretation According to various regulations, such as the international ISO 15189 norm, all pathological laboratory results must be verified by a competent professional. In some countries, staffs composed of clinical scientists do the majority of this work inside the laboratory with certain abnormal results referred to the relevant pathologist. Doctor Clinical Laboratory scientists have the responsibility for limited interpretation of testing results in their discipline in many countries. Interpretation of results can be assisted by some software in order to validate normal or non-modified results. In other testing areas, only professional medical staff (pathologist or clinical Laboratory) is involved with interpretation and consulting. Medical staff are sometimes also required in order to explain pathology results to physicians. For a simple result given by phone or to explain a technical problem, often a medical technologist or medical lab scientist can provide additional information. Medical Laboratory Departments in some countries are exclusively directed by a specialized Doctor laboratory Science. In others, a consultant, medical or non-medical, may be the head the department. In Europe and some other countries, Clinical Scientists with a Masters level education may be qualified to head the department. Others may have a PhD and can have an exit qualification equivalent to medical staff (e.g., FRCPath in the UK). In France, only medical staff (Pharm.D. and M.D. specialized in anatomical pathology or clinical Laboratory Science) can discuss Laboratory results. Medical laboratory accreditation Credibility of medical laboratories is paramount to the health and safety of the patients relying on the testing services provided by these labs. Credentialing agencies vary by country. The international standard in use today for the accreditation of medical laboratories is ISO 15189 - Medical laboratories - Requirements for quality and competence. In the United States, billions of dollars is spent on unaccredited lab tests, such as Laboratory developed tests which do not require accreditation or FDA approval; about a billion USD a year is spent on US autoimmune LDTs alone. Accreditation is performed by the Joint Commission, College of American Pathologists, AAB (American Association of Bioanalysts), and other state and federal agencies. Legislative guidelines are provided under CLIA 88 (Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments) which regulates Medical Laboratory testing and personnel. The accrediting body in Australia is NATA, where all laboratories must be NATA accredited to receive payment from Medicare. In France the accrediting body is the Comité français d'accréditation (COFRAC). In 2010, modification of legislation established ISO 15189 accreditation as an obligation for all clinical laboratories.In the United Arab Emirates, the Dubai Accreditation Department (DAC) is the accreditation body that is internationally recognised by the International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (ILAC) for many facilities and groups, including Medical Laboratories, Testing and Calibration Laboratories, and Inspection Bodies. In Hong Kong, the accrediting body is Hong Kong Accreditation Service (HKAS). On 16 February 2004, HKAS launched its medical testing accreditation programme. In Canada, laboratory accreditation is not mandatory, but is becoming more and more popular. Accreditation Canada (AC) is the national reference. Different provincial oversight bodies mandate laboratories in EQA participations like LSPQ (Quebec), IQMH (Ontario) for example. Industry The laboratory industry is a part of the broader healthcare and health technology industry. Companies exist at various levels, including clinical laboratory services, suppliers of instrumentation equipment and consumable materials, and suppliers and developers of diagnostic tests themselves (often by biotechnology companies).Clinical laboratory services includes large multinational corporations such LabCorp, Quest Diagnostics, and Sonic Healthcare but a significant portion of revenue, estimated at 60% in the United States, is generated by hospital labs. In 2018, the total global revenue for these companies was estimated to reach $146 billion by 2024. Another estimate places the market size at $205 billion, reaching $333 billion by 2023. The American Association for Clinical Chemistry (AACC) represents professionals in the field. Clinical laboratories are supplied by other multinational companies which focus on materials and equipment, which can be used for both scientific research and medical testing. The largest of these is Thermo Fisher Scientific. In 2016, global life sciences instrumentation sales were around $47 billion, not including consumables, software, and services. In general, laboratory equipment includes lab centrifuges, transfection solutions, water purification systems, extraction techniques, gas generators, concentrators and evaporators, fume hoods, incubators, biological safety cabinets, bioreactors and fermenters, microwave-assisted chemistry, lab washers, and shakers and stirrers. United States In the United States, estimated total revenue as of 2016 was $75 billion, about 2% of total healthcare spending. In 2016, an estimated 60% of revenue was done by hospital labs, with 25% done by two independent companies (LabCorp and Quest). Hospital labs may also outsource their lab, known as outreach, to run tests; however, health insurers may pay the hospitals more than they would pay a laboratory company for the same test, but as of 2016, the markups were questioned by insurers. Rural hospitals, in particular, can bill for lab outreach under the Medicare's 70/30 shell rule.Laboratory developed tests are designed and developed inside a specific laboratory and do not require FDA approval; due to technological innovations, they have become more common and are estimated at a total value of $11 billion in 2016.Due to the rise of high-deductible health plans, laboratories have sometimes struggled to collect when billing patients; consequently, some laboratories have shifted to become more consumer-focused. See also ARUP Laboratories Healthcare scientist Point-of-care testing References Further reading Morris, S., Otto, N. C., Golemboski, K. (2013). Improving patient safety and healthcare quality in the 21st century—Competencies required of future medical laboratory science practitioners. Clinical Laboratory Science, 26, 200–204. Archibong, F., Atangwho, A., Ayuk, E. A., Okoye, E. I., Atroger, M., Okokon, B. I. (2019). Medical law: exploring doctor's knowledge on the laws regulating clinical and medical laboratories in Nigeria. Nigerian Journal of Medicine, 28(4), 386–392. Plebani, M., Laposata, M., Lippi, G. (2019). Driving the route of laboratory medicine: a manifesto for the future. Internal and Emergency Medicine, 14, 337–340. Goulding, M. H., Graham, L., Chorney, D., Rajendram, R. (2020). The use of interprofessional stimulation to improve collaboration and problem solving among undergraduate BHSc medical laboratory science and BScN nursing students. Canadian Journal of Medical Laboratory Science, 82(2), 25–33. Kerman University of Medical Sciences also called KMU (Kerman Medical University), is a university located in Kerman, Iran. KMU is a medical university in Iran. More than 125 undergraduate and postgraduate program degrees are taught in 10 schools including schools of Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Nursing and Midwifery, Public Health, Paramedics and Allied Medicine, Iranian Traditional Medicine and Health Care Management and Information. Kerman University of Medical Sciences has 6 campuses including two in Zarand and Sirjan counties. External links Official site Current Medical Science is a bimonthly peer-reviewed general medical journal. It was established in 1981 and is published by Springer Science+Business Media in a partnership with China's Huazhong University of Science and Technology. The editor-in-chief is Jian-guo Chen. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 0.948. References External links Official website National Academy of Medical Sciences (India), better known by its acronym, NAMS, is a non-constitutional, non-statutory advisory body to the Government in matters related to National Health Policy and Planning and as a promoting agency for continuing medical education (CME) for medical and health professionals. It is a part of the Inter Academy Medical Panel (IAMP), a global network of medical academies. The Academy is headquartered at NAMS House, at Ansari Nagar, neighbouring the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and the Indian Council of Medical Research House, along Mahatma Gandhi Marg, in the Indian capital of New Delhi. Genesis The National Academy of Medical Sciences originated as the Indian Academy of Medical Sciences, a registered society, on 21 April 1961, for the promotion of medical education and research in India. The academy, housed in NAMS House, New Delhi, started functioning when Jawaharlal Nehru, the then Prime Minister of India inaugurated the institution on 19 December 1961. In 1963, the inaugural convocation was held at Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi when Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan addressed the gathering. The Academy re-branded itself as the National Academy of Medical Sciences (India) on 16 November 1976. Governance The Academy is governed by a council that is made up of 22 Indian medical professionals who are selected from the community. It is headed by a President and Vice President, and a Treasurer assists them in financial matters. Mukund S. Joshi is the incumbent president and Sanjay Wadhwa and Manorama Berry serves as the vice president and treasurer, respectively. The council members include many notable medical personalities such as P. K. Dave, Saroj Chooramani Gopal and Mohan Kameswaran, among others. Activities One of the principal activities of NAMS is promoting medical education through continuing medical education (CME) programmes for the junior scientists and medical professionals. The Academy provides opportunities, on a regular basis, for the aspirants to undergo training at various centres of excellence. It conducts symposia and workshops on various medical topics where medical professionals and researchers are exposed to modern medical methodologies and practices and encourages them to join the stream as members of the Academy. On successful performance at the entry examination conducted by the National Board of Examinations, the examinees are awarded the Diplomate of National Board title (formerly MNAMS). Besides the academic promotion activities, the Academy recognizes excellence through Fellowships and Awards; the fellowship further categorized into Honorary Fellows and elected Fellows. Honorary Fellowship is awarded to eminent personalities while elected fellowship is limited to medical professionals. An annual conference is conducted by the Academy, NAMSCON, which is a major event in the Indian medical calendar. Further, it acts as an advisory body to the Government of India in matters related to National Health Policy and Planning. Emeritus Professors The academy honors academics with notable service profile and achievements with the title of Emeritus Professor. The following is a list of Emeritus Professor title holders: Journal of the Academy The Academy publishes a quarterly journal, the Annals of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (India), which provides a platform for researchers, educationists and education administrators to publish their works. Sanjeev Misra is the editor while V. Mohan Kumar and Mohan Kameswaran serve as the Associate Editor and Assistant Editor respectively and they are assisted by an Editorial Board and a team of editorial assistants. Awards and Prizes The Academy has instituted six annual awards for contributions in the fields of research, service, publication and academics. Besides these awards, two annual orations NAMS Oration and Dr. K. L. Wig Oration, have also been instituted by the Academy. See also Indian National Science Academy Indian Academy of Sciences National Academy of Sciences, India References External links National Academy of Medical Sciences(India). IAMP Profile. Inter Academy Medical Panel. 2016. Retrieved 19 March 2016. Dr R M Kasliwal Award. YouTube video. NAMSCON 2014. 27 October 2014. Retrieved 19 March 2016. The Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS) is India's first rural medical college, located in Sevagram, Maharashtra, India. It is managed by the Kasturba Health Society. The college was earlier affiliated to the Nagpur University (1969–1997) and from year 1998 it is now affiliated to the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), Nashik. Location The institute is located in Sevagram, a small village about 8 km from the city of Wardha. It is well connected with other parts of the country by rail and road links. Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar International Airport at Nagpur is about 70 km away from the institute. History The MGIMS was begun in 1969, the Gandhi centenary year. It is the first rural medical college in India. It was started by Dr Sushila Nayyar. The Kasturba Hospital, started in 1944, is the only hospital started by the father of the nation himself. Academics The courses offered by the institute are M.B.B.S. (annual intake of 100 students) M.D./M.S. Diploma courses in Medicine and Surgery Admissions The institute enrolls 100 students every year. Half are from the state of Maharashtra and the other half come from the rest of India. Earlier the institute was having special reservations for students from rural areas of the count and the institute was having its own premedical test (PMT) examination, which includes a multiple choice question test on physics, chemistry and biology and a special theory paper on Gandhian thoughts. The students are selected on the basis of the marks obtained in these exams. But since 2017 institute admitting the students from NEET-UG & NEET-PG ( National Eligibility cum Entrance Test ) Postgraduate courses The institute offers postgraduate training in almost all important disciplines of medical science. Admission to these courses is based on performance of a student in NEET PG exam. Medical services Kasturba Hospital The Kasturba Hospital was started in 1945 by Sushila Nayar, close associate of Gandhi and his personal physician. From 770 bed hospital, Kasturba Hospital at Sevagram has now grown into a nearly 1000- bed teaching hospital located in Sevagram, about 8 km from Wardha town, and offers tertiary care healthcare facilities to rural patients. Over a 24-hour period, close to 1700 patients access outpatient care in the hospital, hospital pharmacies deal with 1800 prescriptions, 140 patients seek admission to the hospital wards, 14 patients undergo major surgeries, 12 babies are delivered, and 20 units of blood are transfused. In addition, 270 patients undergo radiography, 65 ultrasound examinations, 14 computed tomography, and seven patients have a magnetic resonance imaging scan. The laboratories report 750 biochemical tests, 510 complete blood counts, 100 serologic tests, 20 cytology samples and 15 biopsy specimens. Research Facility- as well as community-based research is conducted in areas like maternal, neonatal, and child health care, infectious diseases, nutritional illnesses, lifestyle and disorders. To explore traditional systems of Indian medicine. Lead center for State Level Monitoring of ICDS The Department of Community Medicine has been designated the lead center for State Level Monitoring of ICDS activities in Maharashtra. Dr BS Garg, Dr Subodh S Gupta and Dr PR Deshmukh have been appointed State ICDS Consultants. They monitored the activities of ICDS in six districts of Maharashtra during the year 2008–09; viz. Wardha, Yavatmal, Amravati, Chandrapur, Akola, and Buldhana. They also coordinated the monitoring of ICDS activities throughout the state conducted by selected medical colleges identified for this purpose. Clinical Epidemiology Unit The Clinical Epidemiology Unit was expanded to include more members after it was approved by IndiaCLEN. The Clinical Epidemiology Unit started its first activity with a capacity building program of its members. The unit has also started an orientation program for all the new post-graduate students who take admission at MGIMS, Sevagram. Life at campus The institute is unique in following the Gandhian principles. All the students and staff wear khadi. The staff and the students participate in shram daan. The institute follows a strict vegetarianism policy. Alcohol consumption is prohibited in the institute. Aditi Gowitrikar, Indian model and actress Mrs. World 2001 Jivraj Narayan Mehta, first Chief Minister of Gujarat Anuj Saxena Khan Abdul Jabbar Khan, also known as Dr. Khan Sahib, brother of Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan (Frontier Gandhi) and the first chief minister of West Pakistan. Noshir Hormusji Wadia, founder and first head of the department of Neurology. Devdutt Pattanaik, mythologist, speaker, illustrator and author Gieve Patel, poet, playwright, painter and practicing physician N. H. Antia, founder and first head of the department of Plastic Surgery Luis Jose De Souza, Padma Shri awardee Shantilal Jamnadas Mehta, Surgeon and Padma Bhushan awardee Shantilal C. Sheth, former president of the Medical Council of India and Padma Bhushan awardee Dr. Subhash Bhamre, Union Minister of State for Defence, India (from July 2016) and Member of Parliament of 16th LokSabha from Dhule Constituency and an oncologist by profession. Muffazal Lakdawala, Bariatric surgeon Vimla Virmani, neurologist See also List of Mumbai Colleges Waldemar Haffkine References External links Grant Medical College and J J Hospital official website Unofficial Association Med Coll history Science is a rigorous, systematic endeavor that builds and organizes knowledge in the form of testable explanations and predictions about the world. Modern science is typically divided into three major branches: the natural sciences (e.g., physics, chemistry, and biology), which study the physical world; the social sciences (e.g., economics, psychology, and sociology), which study individuals and societies; and the formal sciences (e.g., logic, mathematics, and theoretical computer science), which study formal systems, governed by axioms and rules. There is disagreement whether the formal sciences are science disciplines, because they do not rely on empirical evidence. Applied sciences are disciplines that use scientific knowledge for practical purposes, such as in engineering and medicine.The history of science spans the majority of the historical record, with the earliest written records of identifiable predecessors to modern science dating to Bronze Age Egypt and Mesopotamia from around 3000 to 1200 BCE. Their contributions to mathematics, astronomy, and medicine entered and shaped the Greek natural philosophy of classical antiquity, whereby formal attempts were made to provide explanations of events in the physical world based on natural causes, while further advancements, including the introduction of the Hindu–Arabic numeral system, were made during the Golden Age of India. : 12 Scientific research deteriorated in these regions after the fall of the Western Roman Empire during the early middle ages (400 to 1000 CE), but in the Medieval renaissances (Carolingian Renaissance, Ottonian Renaissance and the Renaissance of the 12th century) scholarship flourished again. Some Greek manuscripts lost in Western Europe were preserved and expanded upon in the Middle East during the Islamic Golden Age and later by the efforts of Byzantine Greek scholars who brought Greek manuscripts from the dying Byzantine Empire to Western Europe in the Renaissance. The recovery and assimilation of Greek works and Islamic inquiries into Western Europe from the 10th to 13th century revived natural philosophy, which was later transformed by the Scientific Revolution that began in the 16th century as new ideas and discoveries departed from previous Greek conceptions and traditions. The scientific method soon played a greater role in knowledge creation and it was not until the 19th century that many of the institutional and professional features of science began to take shape, along with the changing of natural philosophy to natural science.New knowledge in science is advanced by research from scientists who are motivated by curiosity about the world and a desire to solve problems. Contemporary scientific research is highly collaborative and is usually done by teams in academic and research institutions, government agencies, and companies. The practical impact of their work has led to the emergence of science policies that seek to influence the scientific enterprise by prioritizing the ethical and moral development of commercial products, armaments, health care, public infrastructure, and environmental protection. Etymology The word science has been used in Middle English since the 14th century in the sense of the state of knowing. The word was borrowed from the Anglo-Norman language as the suffix -cience, which was borrowed from the Latin word scientia, meaning knowledge, awareness, understanding. It is a noun derivative of the Latin sciens meaning knowing, and undisputedly derived from the Latin sciō, the present participle scīre, meaning to know.There are many hypotheses for science's ultimate word origin. According to Michiel de Vaan, Dutch linguist and Indo-Europeanist, sciō may have its origin in the Proto-Italic language as *skije- or *skijo- meaning to know, which may originate from Proto-Indo-European language as *skh1-ie, *skh1-io, meaning to incise. The Lexikon der indogermanischen Verben proposed sciō is a back-formation of nescīre, meaning to not know, be unfamiliar with, which may derive from Proto-Indo-European *sekH- in Latin secāre, or *skh2-, from *sḱʰeh2(i)- meaning to cut.In the past, science was a synonym for knowledge or study, in keeping with its Latin origin. A person who conducted scientific research was called a natural philosopher or man of science. In 1834, William Whewell introduced the term scientist in a review of Mary Somerville's book On the Connexion of the Physical Sciences, crediting it to some ingenious gentleman (possibly himself). History Early history Science has no single origin. Rather, systematic methods emerged gradually over the course of tens of thousands of years, taking different forms around the world, and few details are known about the very earliest developments. Women likely played a central role in prehistoric science, as did religious rituals. Some scholars use the term protoscience to label activities in the past that resemble modern science in some but not all features; however, this label has also been criticized as denigrating, or too suggestive of presentism, thinking about those activities only in relation to modern categories.Direct evidence for scientific processes becomes clearer with the advent of writing systems in early civilizations like Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia, creating the earliest written records in the history of science in around 3000 to 1200 BCE. : 12–15 Although the words and concepts of science and nature were not part of the conceptual landscape at the time, the ancient Egyptians and Mesopotamians made contributions that would later find a place in Greek and medieval science: mathematics, astronomy, and medicine. : 12 From the 3rd millennium BCE, the ancient Egyptians developed a decimal numbering system, solved practical problems using geometry, and developed a calendar. Their healing therapies involved drug treatments and the supernatural, such as prayers, incantations, and rituals. : 9 The ancient Mesopotamians used knowledge about the properties of various natural chemicals for manufacturing pottery, faience, glass, soap, metals, lime plaster, and waterproofing. They studied animal physiology, anatomy, behavior, and astrology for divinatory purposes. The Mesopotamians had an intense interest in medicine and the earliest medical prescriptions appeared in Sumerian during the Third Dynasty of Ur. They seem to have studied scientific subjects which had practical or religious applications and had little interest in satisfying curiosity. Classical antiquity In classical antiquity, there is no real ancient analog of a modern scientist. Instead, well-educated, usually upper-class, and almost universally male individuals performed various investigations into nature whenever they could afford the time. Before the invention or discovery of the concept of phusis or nature by the pre-Socratic philosophers, the same words tend to be used to describe the natural way in which a plant grows, and the way in which, for example, one tribe worships a particular god. For this reason, it is claimed that these men were the first philosophers in the strict sense and the first to clearly distinguish nature and convention.The early Greek philosophers of the Milesian school, which was founded by Thales of Miletus and later continued by his successors Anaximander and Anaximenes, were the first to attempt to explain natural phenomena without relying on the supernatural. The Pythagoreans developed a complex number philosophy: 467–68 and contributed significantly to the development of mathematical science. : 465 The theory of atoms was developed by the Greek philosopher Leucippus and his student Democritus. Later, Epicurus would develop a full natural cosmology based on atomism, and would adopt a canon (ruler, standard) which established physical criteria or standards of scientific truth. The Greek doctor Hippocrates established the tradition of systematic medical science and is known as The Father of Medicine.A turning point in the history of early philosophical science was Socrates' example of applying philosophy to the study of human matters, including human nature, the nature of political communities, and human knowledge itself. The Socratic method as documented by Plato's dialogues is a dialectic method of hypothesis elimination: better hypotheses are found by steadily identifying and eliminating those that lead to contradictions. The Socratic method searches for general commonly-held truths that shape beliefs and scrutinizes them for consistency. Socrates criticized the older type of study of physics as too purely speculative and lacking in self-criticism.Aristotle in the 4th century BCE created a systematic program of teleological philosophy. In the 3rd century BCE, Greek astronomer Aristarchus of Samos was the first to propose a heliocentric model of the universe, with the Sun at the center and all the planets orbiting it. Aristarchus's model was widely rejected because it was believed to violate the laws of physics, while Ptolemy's Almagest, which contains a geocentric description of the Solar System, was accepted through the early Renaissance instead. The inventor and mathematician Archimedes of Syracuse made major contributions to the beginnings of calculus. Pliny the Elder was a Roman writer and polymath, who wrote the seminal encyclopedia Natural History.Positional notation for representing numbers likely emerged between the 3rd and 5th centuries CE along Indian trade routes. This numeral system made efficient arithmetic operations more accessible and would eventually become standard for mathematics worldwide. Middle Ages Due to the collapse of the Western Roman Empire, the 5th century saw an intellectual decline and knowledge of Greek conceptions of the world deteriorated in Western Europe. : 194 During the period, Latin encyclopedists such as Isidore of Seville preserved the majority of general ancient knowledge. In contrast, because the Byzantine Empire resisted attacks from invaders, they were able to preserve and improve prior learning. : 159 John Philoponus, a Byzantine scholar in the 500s, started to question Aristotle's teaching of physics, introducing the theory of impetus. : 307, 311, 363, 402 His criticism served as an inspiration to medieval scholars and Galileo Galilei, who extensively cited his works ten centuries later. : 307–308 During late antiquity and the early Middle Ages, natural phenomena were mainly examined via the Aristotelian approach. The approach includes Aristotle's four causes: material, formal, moving, and final cause. Many Greek classical texts were preserved by the Byzantine empire and Arabic translations were done by groups such as the Nestorians and the Monophysites. Under the Caliphate, these Arabic translations were later improved and developed by Arabic scientists. By the 6th and 7th centuries, the neighboring Sassanid Empire established the medical Academy of Gondeshapur, which is considered by Greek, Syriac, and Persian physicians as the most important medical center of the ancient world.The House of Wisdom was established in Abbasid-era Baghdad, Iraq, where the Islamic study of Aristotelianism flourished until the Mongol invasions in the 13th century. Ibn al-Haytham, better known as Alhazen, began experimenting as a means to gain knowledge and disproved Ptolemy's theory of vision: Book I, [6.54]. p. 372 Avicenna's compilation of the Canon of Medicine, a medical encyclopedia, is considered to be one of the most important publications in medicine and was used until the 18th century.By the eleventh century, most of Europe had become Christian,: 204 and in 1088, the University of Bologna emerged as the first university in Europe. As such, demand for Latin translation of ancient and scientific texts grew,: 204 a major contributor to the Renaissance of the 12th century. Renaissance scholasticism in western Europe flourished, with experiments done by observing, describing, and classifying subjects in nature. In the 13th century, medical teachers and students at Bologna began opening human bodies, leading to the first anatomy textbook based on human dissection by Mondino de Luzzi. Renaissance New developments in optics played a role in the inception of the Renaissance, both by challenging long-held metaphysical ideas on perception, as well as by contributing to the improvement and development of technology such as the camera obscura and the telescope. At the start of the Renaissance, Roger Bacon, Vitello, and John Peckham each built up a scholastic ontology upon a causal chain beginning with sensation, perception, and finally apperception of the individual and universal forms of Aristotle. : Book I A model of vision later known as perspectivism was exploited and studied by the artists of the Renaissance. This theory uses only three of Aristotle's four causes: formal, material, and final.In the sixteenth century, Nicolaus Copernicus formulated a heliocentric model of the Solar System, stating that the planets revolve around the Sun, instead of the geocentric model where the planets and the Sun revolve around the Earth. This was based on a theorem that the orbital periods of the planets are longer as their orbs are farther from the center of motion, which he found not to agree with Ptolemy's model.Johannes Kepler and others challenged the notion that the only function of the eye is perception, and shifted the main focus in optics from the eye to the propagation of light. Kepler is best known, however, for improving Copernicus' heliocentric model through the discovery of Kepler's laws of planetary motion. Kepler did not reject Aristotelian metaphysics and described his work as a search for the Harmony of the Spheres. Galileo had made significant contributions to astronomy, physics and engineering. However, he became persecuted after Pope Urban VIII sentenced him for writing about the heliocentric model.The printing press was widely used to publish scholarly arguments, including some that disagreed widely with contemporary ideas of nature. Francis Bacon and René Descartes published philosophical arguments in favor of a new type of non-Aristotelian science. Bacon emphasized the importance of experiment over contemplation, questioned the Aristotelian concepts of formal and final cause, promoted the idea that science should study the laws of nature and the improvement of all human life. Descartes emphasized individual thought and argued that mathematics rather than geometry should be used to study nature. Age of Enlightenment At the start of the Age of Enlightenment, Isaac Newton formed the foundation of classical mechanics by his Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica, greatly influencing future physicists. Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz incorporated terms from Aristotelian physics, now used in a new non-teleological way. This implied a shift in the view of objects: objects were now considered as having no innate goals. Leibniz assumed that different types of things all work according to the same general laws of nature, with no special formal or final causes.During this time, the declared purpose and value of science became producing wealth and inventions that would improve human lives, in the materialistic sense of having more food, clothing, and other things. In Bacon's words, the real and legitimate goal of sciences is the endowment of human life with new inventions and riches, and he discouraged scientists from pursuing intangible philosophical or spiritual ideas, which he believed contributed little to human happiness beyond the fume of subtle, sublime or pleasing [speculation].Science during the Enlightenment was dominated by scientific societies and academies, which had largely replaced universities as centers of scientific research and development. Societies and academies were the backbones of the maturation of the scientific profession. Another important development was the popularization of science among an increasingly literate population. Enlightenment philosophers turned to a few of their scientific predecessors – Galileo, Kepler, Boyle, and Newton principally – as the guides to every physical and social field of the day.The 18th century saw significant advancements in the practice of medicine and physics; the development of biological taxonomy by Carl Linnaeus; a new understanding of magnetism and electricity; and the maturation of chemistry as a discipline. Ideas on human nature, society, and economics evolved during the Enlightenment. Hume and other Scottish Enlightenment thinkers developed A Treatise of Human Nature, which was expressed historically in works by authors including James Burnett, Adam Ferguson, John Millar and William Robertson, all of whom merged a scientific study of how humans behaved in ancient and primitive cultures with a strong awareness of the determining forces of modernity. Modern sociology largely originated from this movement. In 1776, Adam Smith published The Wealth of Nations, which is often considered the first work on modern economics. 19th century During the nineteenth century, many distinguishing characteristics of contemporary modern science began to take shape. These included the transformation of the life and physical sciences, frequent use of precision instruments, emergence of terms such as biologist, physicist, scientist, increased professionalization of those studying nature, scientists gained cultural authority over many dimensions of society, industrialization of numerous countries, thriving of popular science writings and emergence of science journals. During the late 19th century, psychology emerged as a separate discipline from philosophy when Wilhelm Wundt founded the first laboratory for psychological research in 1879.During the mid-19th century, Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace independently proposed the theory of evolution by natural selection in 1858, which explained how different plants and animals originated and evolved. Their theory was set out in detail in Darwin's book On the Origin of Species, published in 1859. Separately, Gregor Mendel presented his paper, Experiments on Plant Hybridization in 1865, which outlined the principles of biological inheritance, serving as the basis for modern genetics.Early in the 19th century, John Dalton suggested the modern atomic theory, based on Democritus's original idea of indivisible particles called atoms. The laws of conservation of energy, conservation of momentum and conservation of mass suggested a highly stable universe where there could be little loss of resources. However, with the advent of the steam engine and the industrial revolution there was an increased understanding that not all forms of energy have the same energy qualities, the ease of conversion to useful work or to another form of energy. This realization led to the development of the laws of thermodynamics, in which the free energy of the universe is seen as constantly declining: the entropy of a closed universe increases over time.The electromagnetic theory was established in the 19th century by the works of Hans Christian Ørsted, André-Marie Ampère, Michael Faraday, James Clerk Maxwell, Oliver Heaviside, and Heinrich Hertz. The new theory raised questions that could not easily be answered using Newton's framework. The discovery of X-rays inspired the discovery of radioactivity by Henri Becquerel and Marie Curie in 1896, Marie Curie then became the first person to win two Nobel prizes. In the next year came the discovery of the first subatomic particle, the electron. 20th century In the first half of the century, the development of antibiotics and artificial fertilizers improved human living standards globally. Harmful environmental issues such as ozone depletion, ocean acidification, eutrophication and climate change came to the public's attention and caused the onset of environmental studies.During this period, scientific experimentation became increasingly larger in scale and funding. The extensive technological innovation stimulated by World War I, World War II, and the Cold War led to competitions between global powers, such as the Space Race and nuclear arms race. Substantial international collaborations were also made, despite armed conflicts.In the late 20th century, active recruitment of women and elimination of sex discrimination greatly increased the number of women scientists, but large gender disparities remained in some fields. The discovery of the cosmic microwave background in 1964 led to a rejection of the steady-state model of the universe in favor of the Big Bang theory of Georges Lemaître.The century saw fundamental changes within science disciplines. Evolution became a unified theory in the early 20th-century when the modern synthesis reconciled Darwinian evolution with classical genetics. Albert Einstein's theory of relativity and the development of quantum mechanics complement classical mechanics to describe physics in extreme length, time and gravity. Widespread use of integrated circuits in the last quarter of the 20th century combined with communications satellites led to a revolution in information technology and the rise of the global internet and mobile computing, including smartphones. The need for mass systematization of long, intertwined causal chains and large amounts of data led to the rise of the fields of systems theory and computer-assisted scientific modeling. 21st century The Human Genome Project was completed in 2003 by identifying and mapping all of the genes of the human genome. The first induced pluripotent human stem cells were made in 2006, allowing adult cells to be transformed into stem cells and turn to any cell type found in the body. With the affirmation of the Higgs boson discovery in 2013, the last particle predicted by the Standard Model of particle physics was found. In 2015, gravitational waves, predicted by general relativity a century before, were first observed. In 2019, the international collaboration Event Horizon Telescope presented the first direct image of a black hole's accretion disk. Branches Modern science is commonly divided into three major branches: natural science, social science, and formal science. Each of these branches comprises various specialized yet overlapping scientific disciplines that often possess their own nomenclature and expertise. Both natural and social sciences are empirical sciences, as their knowledge is based on empirical observations and is capable of being tested for its validity by other researchers working under the same conditions. Natural science Natural science is the study of the physical world. It can be divided into two main branches: life science and physical science. These two branches may be further divided into more specialized disciplines. For example, physical science can be subdivided into physics, chemistry, astronomy, and earth science. Modern natural science is the successor to the natural philosophy that began in Ancient Greece. Galileo, Descartes, Bacon, and Newton debated the benefits of using approaches which were more mathematical and more experimental in a methodical way. Still, philosophical perspectives, conjectures, and presuppositions, often overlooked, remain necessary in natural science. Systematic data collection, including discovery science, succeeded natural history, which emerged in the 16th century by describing and classifying plants, animals, minerals, and so on. Today, natural history suggests observational descriptions aimed at popular audiences. Social science Social science is the study of human behavior and functioning of societies. It has many disciplines that include, but are not limited to anthropology, economics, history, human geography, political science, psychology, and sociology. In the social sciences, there are many competing theoretical perspectives, many of which are extended through competing research programs such as the functionalists, conflict theorists, and interactionists in sociology. Due to the limitations of conducting controlled experiments involving large groups of individuals or complex situations, social scientists may adopt other research methods such as the historical method, case studies, and cross-cultural studies. Moreover, if quantitative information is available, social scientists may rely on statistical approaches to better understand social relationships and processes. Formal science Formal science is an area of study that generates knowledge using formal systems. A formal system is an abstract structure used for inferring theorems from axioms according to a set of rules. It includes mathematics, systems theory, and theoretical computer science. The formal sciences share similarities with the other two branches by relying on objective, careful, and systematic study of an area of knowledge. They are, however, different from the empirical sciences as they rely exclusively on deductive reasoning, without the need for empirical evidence, to verify their abstract concepts. The formal sciences are therefore a priori disciplines and because of this, there is disagreement on whether they constitute a science. Nevertheless, the formal sciences play an important role in the empirical sciences. Calculus, for example, was initially invented to understand motion in physics. Natural and social sciences that rely heavily on mathematical applications include mathematical physics, chemistry, biology, finance, and economics. Applied science Applied science is the use of the scientific method and knowledge to attain practical goals and includes a broad range of disciplines such as engineering and medicine. Engineering is the use of scientific principles to invent, design and build machines, structures and technologies. Science may contribute to the development of new technologies. Medicine is the practice of caring for patients by maintaining and restoring health through the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of injury or disease. The applied sciences are often contrasted with the basic sciences, which are focused on advancing scientific theories and laws that explain and predict events in the natural world.Computational science applies computing power to simulate real-world situations, enabling a better understanding of scientific problems than formal mathematics alone can achieve. The use of machine learning and artificial intelligence is becoming a central feature of computational contributions to science for example in agent-based computational economics, random forests, topic modeling and various forms of prediction. However, machines alone rarely advance knowledge as they require human guidance and capacity to reason; and they can introduce bias against certain social groups or sometimes underperform against humans. Interdisciplinary science Interdisciplinary science involves the combination of two or more disciplines into one, such as bioinformatics, a combination of biology and computer science or cognitive sciences. The concept has existed since the ancient Greek and it became popular again in the 20th century. Scientific research Scientific research can be labeled as either basic or applied research. Basic research is the search for knowledge and applied research is the search for solutions to practical problems using this knowledge. Most understanding comes from basic research, though sometimes applied research targets specific practical problems. This leads to technological advances that were not previously imaginable. Scientific method Scientific research involves using the scientific method, which seeks to objectively explain the events of nature in a reproducible way. Scientists usually take for granted a set of basic assumptions that are needed to justify the scientific method: there is an objective reality shared by all rational observers; this objective reality is governed by natural laws; these laws were discovered by means of systematic observation and experimentation. Mathematics is essential in the formation of hypotheses, theories, and laws, because it is used extensively in quantitative modeling, observing, and collecting measurements. Statistics is used to summarize and analyze data, which allows scientists to assess the reliability of experimental results.In the scientific method, an explanatory thought experiment or hypothesis is put forward as an explanation using parsimony principles and is expected to seek consilience – fitting with other accepted facts related to an observation or scientific question. This tentative explanation is used to make falsifiable predictions, which are typically posted before being tested by experimentation. Disproof of a prediction is evidence of progress. : 4–5 Experimentation is especially important in science to help establish causal relationships to avoid the correlation fallacy, though in some sciences such as astronomy or geology, a predicted observation might be more appropriate.When a hypothesis proves unsatisfactory, it is modified or discarded. If the hypothesis survived testing, it may become adopted into the framework of a scientific theory, a validly reasoned, self-consistent model or framework for describing the behavior of certain natural events. A theory typically describes the behavior of much broader sets of observations than a hypothesis; commonly, a large number of hypotheses can be logically bound together by a single theory. Thus a theory is a hypothesis explaining various other hypotheses. In that vein, theories are formulated according to most of the same scientific principles as hypotheses. Scientists may generate a model, an attempt to describe or depict an observation in terms of a logical, physical or mathematical representation and to generate new hypotheses that can be tested by experimentation.While performing experiments to test hypotheses, scientists may have a preference for one outcome over another. Eliminating the bias can be achieved by transparency, careful experimental design, and a thorough peer review process of the experimental results and conclusions. After the results of an experiment are announced or published, it is normal practice for independent researchers to double-check how the research was performed, and to follow up by performing similar experiments to determine how dependable the results might be. Taken in its entirety, the scientific method allows for highly creative problem solving while minimizing the effects of subjective and confirmation bias. Intersubjective verifiability, the ability to reach a consensus and reproduce results, is fundamental to the creation of all scientific knowledge. Scientific literature Scientific research is published in a range of literature. Scientific journals communicate and document the results of research carried out in universities and various other research institutions, serving as an archival record of science. The first scientific journals, Journal des sçavans followed by Philosophical Transactions, began publication in 1665. Since that time the total number of active periodicals has steadily increased. In 1981, one estimate for the number of scientific and technical journals in publication was 11,500.Most scientific journals cover a single scientific field and publish the research within that field; the research is normally expressed in the form of a scientific paper. Science has become so pervasive in modern societies that it is considered necessary to communicate the achievements, news, and ambitions of scientists to a wider population. Challenges The replication crisis is an ongoing methodological crisis that affects parts of the social and life sciences. In subsequent investigations, the results of many scientific studies are proven to be unrepeatable. The crisis has long-standing roots; the phrase was coined in the early 2010s as part of a growing awareness of the problem. The replication crisis represents an important body of research in metascience, which aims to improve the quality of all scientific research while reducing waste.An area of study or speculation that masquerades as science in an attempt to claim a legitimacy that it would not otherwise be able to achieve is sometimes referred to as pseudoscience, fringe science, or junk science. Physicist Richard Feynman coined the term cargo cult science for cases in which researchers believe and at a glance looks like they are doing science, but lack the honesty allowing their results to be rigorously evaluated. Various types of commercial advertising, ranging from hype to fraud, may fall into these categories. Science has been described as the most important tool for separating valid claims from invalid ones.There can also be an element of political or ideological bias on all sides of scientific debates. Sometimes, research may be characterized as bad science, research that may be well-intended but is incorrect, obsolete, incomplete, or over-simplified expositions of scientific ideas. The term scientific misconduct refers to situations such as where researchers have intentionally misrepresented their published data or have purposely given credit for a discovery to the wrong person. Philosophy of science There are different schools of thought in the philosophy of science. The most popular position is empiricism, which holds that knowledge is created by a process involving observation; scientific theories generalize observations. Empiricism generally encompasses inductivism, a position that explains how general theories can be made from the finite amount of empirical evidence available. Many versions of empiricism exist, with the predominant ones being Bayesianism and the hypothetico-deductive method.Empiricism has stood in contrast to rationalism, the position originally associated with Descartes, which holds that knowledge is created by the human intellect, not by observation. Critical rationalism is a contrasting 20th-century approach to science, first defined by Austrian-British philosopher Karl Popper. Popper rejected the way that empiricism describes the connection between theory and observation. He claimed that theories are not generated by observation, but that observation is made in the light of theories: that the only way theory A can be affected by observation is after theory A were to conflict with observation, but theory B were to survive the observation. Popper proposed replacing verifiability with falsifiability as the landmark of scientific theories, replacing induction with falsification as the empirical method. Popper further claimed that there is actually only one universal method, not specific to science: the negative method of criticism, trial and error, covering all products of the human mind, including science, mathematics, philosophy, and art.Another approach, instrumentalism, emphasizes the utility of theories as instruments for explaining and predicting phenomena. It views scientific theories as black boxes with only their input (initial conditions) and output (predictions) being relevant. Consequences, theoretical entities, and logical structure are claimed to be something that should be ignored. Close to instrumentalism is constructive empiricism, according to which the main criterion for the success of a scientific theory is whether what it says about observable entities is true.Thomas Kuhn argued that the process of observation and evaluation takes place within a paradigm, a logically consistent portrait of the world that is consistent with observations made from its framing. He characterized normal science as the process of observation and puzzle solving which takes place within a paradigm, whereas revolutionary science occurs when one paradigm overtakes another in a paradigm shift. Each paradigm has its own distinct questions, aims, and interpretations. The choice between paradigms involves setting two or more portraits against the world and deciding which likeness is most promising. A paradigm shift occurs when a significant number of observational anomalies arise in the old paradigm and a new paradigm makes sense of them. That is, the choice of a new paradigm is based on observations, even though those observations are made against the background of the old paradigm. For Kuhn, acceptance or rejection of a paradigm is a social process as much as a logical process. Kuhn's position, however, is not one of relativism.Finally, another approach often cited in debates of scientific skepticism against controversial movements like creation science is methodological naturalism. Naturalists maintain that a difference should be made between natural and supernatural, and science should be restricted to natural explanations. Methodological naturalism maintains that science requires strict adherence to empirical study and independent verification. Scientific community The scientific community is a network of interacting scientists who conducts scientific research. The community consists of smaller groups working in scientific fields. By having peer review, through discussion and debate within journals and conferences, scientists maintain the quality of research methodology and objectivity when interpreting results. Scientists Scientists are individuals who conduct scientific research to advance knowledge in an area of interest. In modern times, many professional scientists are trained in an academic setting and upon completion, attain an academic degree, with the highest degree being a doctorate such as a Doctor of Philosophy or PhD. Many scientists pursue careers in various sectors of the economy such as academia, industry, government, and nonprofit organizations.Scientists exhibit a strong curiosity about reality and a desire to apply scientific knowledge for the benefit of health, nations, the environment, or industries. Other motivations include recognition by their peers and prestige. In modern times, many scientists have advanced degrees in an area of science and pursue careers in various sectors of the economy such as academia, industry, government, and nonprofit environments. Science has historically been a male-dominated field, with notable exceptions. Women in science faced considerable discrimination in science, much as they did in other areas of male-dominated societies. For example, women were frequently being passed over for job opportunities and denied credit for their work. The achievements of women in science have been attributed to the defiance of their traditional role as laborers within the domestic sphere. Learned societies Learned societies for the communication and promotion of scientific thought and experimentation have existed since the Renaissance. Many scientists belong to a learned society that promotes their respective scientific discipline, profession, or group of related disciplines. Membership may either be open to all, require possession of scientific credentials, or conferred by election. Most scientific societies are non-profit organizations, and many are professional associations. Their activities typically include holding regular conferences for the presentation and discussion of new research results and publishing or sponsoring academic journals in their discipline. Some societies act as professional bodies, regulating the activities of their members in the public interest, or the collective interest of the membership. The professionalization of science, begun in the 19th century, was partly enabled by the creation of national distinguished academies of sciences such as the Italian Accademia dei Lincei in 1603, the British Royal Society in 1660, the French Academy of Sciences in 1666, the American National Academy of Sciences in 1863, the German Kaiser Wilhelm Society in 1911, and the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 1949. International scientific organizations, such as the International Science Council, are devoted to international cooperation for science advancement. Awards Science awards are usually given to individuals or organizations that have made significant contributions to a discipline. They are often given by prestigious institutions, thus it is considered a great honor for a scientist receiving them. Since the early Renaissance, scientists are often awarded medals, money, and titles. The Nobel Prize, a widely regarded prestigious award, is awarded annually to those who have achieved scientific advances in the fields of medicine, physics, and chemistry. Society Funding and policies Scientific research is often funded through a competitive process in which potential research projects are evaluated and only the most promising receive funding. Such processes, which are run by government, corporations, or foundations, allocate scarce funds. Total research funding in most developed countries is between 1.5% and 3% of GDP. In the OECD, around two-thirds of research and development in scientific and technical fields is carried out by industry, and 20% and 10% respectively by universities and government. The government funding proportion in certain fields is higher, and it dominates research in social science and humanities. In the lesser-developed nations, government provides the bulk of the funds for their basic scientific research.Many governments have dedicated agencies to support scientific research, such as the National Science Foundation in the United States, the National Scientific and Technical Research Council in Argentina, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization in Australia, National Centre for Scientific Research in France, the Max Planck Society in Germany, and National Research Council in Spain. In commercial research and development, all but the most research-oriented corporations focus more heavily on near-term commercialization possibilities rather than research driven by curiosity.Science policy is concerned with policies that affect the conduct of the scientific enterprise, including research funding, often in pursuance of other national policy goals such as technological innovation to promote commercial product development, weapons development, health care, and environmental monitoring. Science policy sometimes refers to the act of applying scientific knowledge and consensus to the development of public policies. In accordance with public policy being concerned about the well-being of its citizens, science policy's goal is to consider how science and technology can best serve the public. Public policy can directly affect the funding of capital equipment and intellectual infrastructure for industrial research by providing tax incentives to those organizations that fund research. Education and awareness Science education for the general public is embedded in the school curriculum, and is supplemented by online pedagogical content (for example, YouTube and Khan Academy), museums, and science magazines and blogs. Scientific literacy is chiefly concerned with an understanding of the scientific method, units and methods of measurement, empiricism, a basic understanding of statistics (correlations, qualitative versus quantitative observations, aggregate statistics), as well as a basic understanding of core scientific fields, such as physics, chemistry, biology, ecology, geology and computation. As a student advances into higher stages of formal education, the curriculum becomes more in depth. Traditional subjects usually included in the curriculum are natural and formal sciences, although recent movements include social and applied science as well.The mass media face pressures that can prevent them from accurately depicting competing scientific claims in terms of their credibility within the scientific community as a whole. Determining how much weight to give different sides in a scientific debate may require considerable expertise regarding the matter. Few journalists have real scientific knowledge, and even beat reporters who are knowledgeable about certain scientific issues may be ignorant about other scientific issues that they are suddenly asked to cover.Science magazines such as New Scientist, Science & Vie, and Scientific American cater to the needs of a much wider readership and provide a non-technical summary of popular areas of research, including notable discoveries and advances in certain fields of research. Science fiction genre, primarily speculative fiction, can transmit the ideas and methods of science to the general public. Recent efforts to intensify or develop links between science and non-scientific disciplines, such as literature or poetry, include the Creative Writing Science resource developed through the Royal Literary Fund. Anti-science attitudes While the scientific method is broadly accepted in the scientific community, some fractions of society reject certain scientific positions or are skeptical about science. Examples are the common notion that COVID-19 is not a major health threat to the US (held by 39% of Americans in August 2021) or the belief that climate change is not a major threat to the US (also held by 40% of Americans, in late 2019 and early 2020). Psychologists have pointed to four factors driving rejection of scientific results: Scientific authorities are sometimes seen as inexpert, untrustworthy, or biased. Some marginalized social groups hold anti-science attitudes, in part because these groups have often been exploited in unethical experiments. Messages from scientists may contradict deeply-held existing beliefs or morals. The delivery of a scientific message may not be appropriately targeted to a recipient's learning style.Anti-science attitudes seem to be often caused by fear of rejection in social groups. For instance, climate change is perceived as a threat by only 22% of Americans on the right side of the political spectrum, but by 85% on the left. That is, if someone on the left would not consider climate change as a threat, this person may face contempt and be rejected in that social group. In fact, people may rather deny a scientifically accepted fact than lose or jeopardize their social status. Politics Attitudes towards science are often determined by political opinions and goals. Government, business and advocacy groups have been known to use legal and economic pressure to influence scientific researchers. Many factors can act as facets of the politicization of science such as anti-intellectualism, perceived threats to religious beliefs, and fear for business interests. Politicization of science is usually accomplished when scientific information is presented in a way that emphasizes the uncertainty associated with the scientific evidence. Tactics such as shifting conversation, failing to acknowledge facts, and capitalizing on doubt of scientific consensus have been used to gain more attention for views that have been undermined by scientific evidence. Examples of issues that have involved the politicization of science include the global warming controversy, health effects of pesticides, and health effects of tobacco. See also Criticism of science List of scientific occupations List of years in science Notes References An academic medical centre (AMC), variously also known as academic health science centre, academic health science system, or academic health science partnership, is an educational and healthcare institute formed by the grouping of a health professional school (such as a medical school) with an affiliated teaching hospital or hospital network. AMCs are intended to ensure that medical research breakthroughs lead to direct clinical benefits for patients. The organisational structures that comprise an AMCs can take a variety of forms, ranging from simple partnerships to, less frequently, fully integrated organisations with a single management board. There are AMCs operating in a number of countries including Australia, Canada, the Republic of Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands, Qatar, Singapore, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. Australia Health Translation Queensland (Brisbane, Australia) Melbourne Academic Centre for Health (Melbourne, Australia)] Monash Partners Academic Health Science Centre (Melbourne, Australia) South Australian Academic Health Science and Translation Centre (Adelaide, Australia) Sydney Health Partners (Sydney, Australia) Sydney Partnership for Health, Education, Research & Enterprise (Sydney, Australia) Western Australian Health Translation Network (Perth, Australia) Tropical Australian Academic Health Centre (North Queensland, Australia) Canada Hamilton Health Sciences (Hamilton, Ontario) St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton (Hamilton, Ontario) Health Sciences North (Sudbury, Ontario) Kingston Health Sciences Centre (Kingston, Ontario) London Health Sciences Centre (London, Ontario) McGill University Health Centre (Montreal, Quebec) Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal (Montreal, Quebec) Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre (Toronto, Ontario) The Ottawa Hospital (Ottawa, Ontario) Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre (Thunder Bay, Ontario) University Health Network (Toronto, Ontario) Vancouver Hospital and Health Sciences Centre (Vancouver, British Columbia) Winnipeg Health Sciences Centre (Winnipeg, Manitoba) United Kingdom Bristol Health Partners, Bristol Cambridge University Health Partners, Cambridge Imperial College Academic Health Science Centre, London King's Health Partners, London Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester Newcastle Health Innovation Partners, Newcastle upon Tyne Oxford Academic Health Partners, Oxford South East Wales Academic Health Science Partnership, Cardiff UCLPartners, London United States Albany Medical Center, Albany Medical College, Albany, New York Anschutz Medical Campus, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado BJC HealthCare, St. Louis, Missouri Boston Medical Center, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, California Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Geisel School of Medicine, Lebanon, New Hampshire Duke University Medical Center (Durham, North Carolina) Georgetown University Medical Center (Washington, DC) Intermountain Medical Center (Salt Lake City, Utah) Johns Hopkins Hospital (Baltimore, Maryland) Keck Hospital of USC (Los Angeles, California) Loma Linda University Health (Loma Linda, California) Massachusetts General Hospital, Brigham and Women's Hospital, and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School (Boston, Massachusetts) Mayo Clinic, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science (Rochester, Minnesota) Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina Memorial Medical Center and St. John's Hospital (Springfield, Illinois) National Academy of Medicine National Institutes of Health New York–Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia University and Cornell University, New York, New York NYU Langone Medical Center, New York University, New York, NY Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, Ohio State University (Columbus, Ohio) Oregon Health & Science University, (Portland, Oregon) OSF Saint Francis Medical Center and the Children's Hospital of Illinois (Peoria, Illinois) Providence Alaska Medical Center (Anchorage, Alaska) Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School (New Brunswick, New Jersey) Stony Brook University Hospital, Stony Brook University- State University of New York, Stony Brook, NY SUNY Downstate Medical Center, SUNY Downstate Health Sciences University, Brooklyn, NY Temple University Hospital, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Texas Medical Center (Houston, Texas) Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Tufts Medical Center (Boston, Massachusetts) UC Davis Medical Center (Sacramento, California) UC Irvine Medical Center (Orange, California) UCLA Health System (Los Angeles, California) UC San Diego Health (La Jolla, California) UCSF Medical Center (San Francisco, California) Uniformed Services University, (Bethesda, Maryland) University of Alabama at Birmingham, Alabama University of Chicago Medical Center, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois University of Connecticut Health Center, University of Connecticut, Farmington, Connecticut University of Cincinnati Medical Center (Cincinnati, Ohio) University of Florida Health (UF Health) (Gainesville and Jacksonville, Florida) University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center (Cleveland, Ohio) University of Kentucky HealthCare (Lexington, Kentucky) University of Louisville Health Science Center (Louisville, KY) University of Miami Health System (UHealth) (Miami, Florida) University of Michigan Health System, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan University of Mississippi Medical Center, Mississippi University of North Carolina Hospitals (Chapel Hill, North Carolina) University of Pennsylvania Health System, Philadelphia, PA University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pennsylvania University of Tennessee Health Science Center (Memphis, TN) University of Texas Medical Branch (Galveston, Texas) University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center (Dallas, Texas) University of Utah Hospital, University of Utah (Salt Lake City, Utah) University of Vermont Medical Center, University of Vermont (Burlington, Vermont) University of Virginia Health System, Charlottesville, Virginia University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics, Madison, Wisconsin Upstate University Hospital, Norton College of Medicine – State University of New York (Syracuse, New York) UW Medicine, University of Washington (Seattle, Washington) Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee Vidant Medical Center, Brody School of Medicine at East Carolina University (Greenville, North Carolina) VCU Medical Center, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, Virginia Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center, Winston-Salem, North Carolina Westchester Medical Center, Valhalla, New York Yale-New Haven Hospital, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut Other countries Academic Health System Universitas Gadjah Mada (Yogyakarta, Indonesia) Kyushu University Academic Medical Center (Fukuoka, Japan) Dublin Academic Medical Centre (Dublin, Ireland) Hamad Medical Corporation (Doha, Qatar) Karolinska Institutet (Stockholm, Sweden) Leiden University Medical Center (Leiden, the Netherlands) National University Health System (Singapore) Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre (Nijmegen, the Netherlands) SingHealth Duke-NUS Academic Medical Center, Singapore See also List of university hospitals Medical school Teaching hospital References External links Official website – Association of Academic Health Centers Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi (KIMS, Hubli) is a medical school in Hubballi, India and is affiliated to the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Bangalore, Karnataka. It is one of the oldest government tertiary healthcare centers, and the largest multi-specialty hospital in North Karnataka, recognized by the Medical Council of India. In June 1997, the then Karnataka Medical College was accorded autonomous status and became the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi. History Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi, (KIMS, Hubballi), formerly known as Karnataka Medical College, Hubballi, was established in August 1957 and One of the oldest Government medical college in Karnataka. For the first few years, the college was located in a building which was later known as J. G. Commerce College. The campus subsequently was shifted to the present location comprising 100 acres (0.40 km2) of land, on the Pune – Bangalore National Highway near Vidyanagar, Hubballi.KIMS, Hubballi serves the society at large by providing tertiary health care services to the needy and by developing resources of health care providers and researchers. The decade 1980-1990 changed the institute from being a nondescript hospital treating cancer patients to a well-known comprehensive regional center for cancer treatment and research. It is now capable of offering diagnostic and therapeutic services to cancer patients from Karnataka and neighboring states like Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Maharashtra. The institute was the first medical college in India to start a full-fledged post-graduate course in pediatrics. For a brief period, due to lack of political will and poor funding, there was a progressive decline in staff, facilities and services offered. The government of Karnataka organized a Governing Council, and in June 1997, the then Karnataka Medical College was accorded autonomy and became the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi. The current objectives are providing comprehensive undergraduate and postgraduate medical and paramedical education, and developing facilities for research, training, screening, diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation, palliative and preventive care for society at large. It now has well trained staff.There has been steady progress in the facilities and the health care services that are available at the institute. The institute is equipped to provide some specialty services like Cardiology, Nephrology, Endocrinology, Neurology, Neurosurgery, Urology, Plastic surgery and Pediatric surgery. The Anti-Retroviral Treatment Center at KIMS, Hubballi has been recognized and is being developed as the nodal center for North Karnataka as well as the surrounding region. The Government of Karnataka has provided a cardiac catheterization lab to the Institute and has pledged to renew it as a Regional Cardiology Center. The institute has also been accorded the status of Institute of Excellence and recognized as a Training Center for WHO Fellowship. The addition of new blocks, Trauma Care Center and Maternal & Child Health Center is expected to increase the popularity of the hospital in the region. Phototherapy, dermabrasion and radio frequency have been newly added to the Department of Dermatology. The Karnataka institute of Medical sciences at Hubbali was selected by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) making the facility the only government controlled body in Karnataka as a centre of clinical trials. The centre is among the handful of other centres that are in the country that check the impact of any medicines or vaccines. Teaching affiliates Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences Hospital, KIMS Campus, Hubballi Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (DIMHANS), Dharwad Anti Retroviral Therapy Center, KIMS Campus, Hubballi District Tuberculosis Center, KIMS Campus, Hubballi Urban Leprosy Center, KIMS Campus, Hubballi Urban Health Training Center, Old Hubballi Rural Health Training Center, Kundgol Primary Health Care Center, Kalghatgi Hubli Hospital for the Handicapped, Anandnagar, Hubballi KIMS Life Line Blood Bank, KIMS Campus, Hubballi Jaipur Center for Prosthetics, KIMS Campus, Hubballi Railway Hospital, Hubballi References External links Official Website of Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubli AJ Institute of Medical Science is a medical college in Mangalore with an annual intake of 150 students. The college is an offshoot of A J Hospital and Research centre. The college is promoted by industrialist A.J. Shetty. The college was established on 21 October 2002. This college is situated at Kuntikana junction on NH-66. The medical college is currently affiliated with RGUHS and recognized by the Medical Council of India. The first batch passed out of final MBBS in February 2007 and completed internship on 2008. The college has post-graduate courses including M.D. and M.S. degrees in various departments like Anatomy, Physiology, Biochemistry, Forensic Medicine & Toxicology, Pharmacology, Pathology, Microbiology, Community Medicine, ENT, Ophthalmology, Dermatology, PTCD, Anaesthesiology, Radiology, General Medicine, General Surgery, Paediatrics, and Obstetrics & Gynecology. Prashanth Shetty is the Director of AJIMS. A J Institute of Medical Science is equipped with campus management software for automation of workflow processes and has thus enhanced communication and user experience for the students, faculty and parents as well. A 2020 pandemic controversy highlighted that the college was withholding the full stipend for the post-graduate doctors. While the administration denied any discrepancy, evidence of doctors working under-risk conditions without full payment came up. References External links A J Institute of Medical Science official web page RGUHS site First ever cadaveric kidney transplantation[*https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mangaluru/karnataka-revise-our-stipend-pg-doctors-urge-minister/articleshow/77945932.cms] SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), formerly SRM University, is a private deemed university, located in Kattankulathur, Chengalpattu (near Chennai), Tamil Nadu, India. Founded in 1985 as SRM Engineering College in Kattankulathur, it gained the deemed status in 2002. SRM Institute of Science and Technology includes six campuses, four in Tamil Nadu — Kattankulathur, Ramapuram and Vadapalani, and Tiruchirappalli, one in Amaravati, Andhra Pradesh and one in NCR Delhi. History The first college of what is now SRMIST, SRM (Sri Ramaswamy Memorial) Engineering College, was established in 1985, followed by the other SRM colleges from 1992 to 1997. The institute gained deemed status in 2002 as SRM Institute of Science and Technology and renamed SRM University in 2006. In 2017, its name was reverted to SRM Institute of Science and Technology following UGC's order to drop University from the name. Campuses Located about 35 km (22 mi) away from the city of Chennai, this campus is situated on a 250 acre site overlooking Grand Southern Trunk Road (GST Road), NH-32. The main campus at Kattankulathur consists of a College of Engineering and Technology, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, College of Science and Humanities, School of Management, School of Architecture and School of Law. It is also one of the few schools in India that offers a Degree in Telecom studies. Vadapalani campus Vadapalani Campus is located at Vadapalani, Chennai. This campus houses the Faculty of Engineering and Technology, Faculty of Management Sciences, Faculty of MCA. The SRM Institute for Medical Sciences is also located within the campus. Tiruchirappalli campus The 250-acre (100 ha) campus at Trichy on the Trichy-Chennai highway houses the faculties of Engineering & Technology, Science & Humanities, Allied Medical Science and Management. NCR campus The 25-acre (10 ha) campus at Modinagar on Delhi-Meerut highway houses the faculties of Engineering & Technology, Management and Teacher Education.SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre Overall the experience is disappointing. There is a lack of diversity and extreme racial discrimination. The number of capable professors can be counted on one hand with fingers remaining. Patient load in the hospital is acceptable only in a few of the basic speciality departments. Super speciality is almost non-existent. Final and pre final teaching of ug students is sub par. Internship experience will be horrible. Internship stipend is less than the minimum wage of a manual labourer. Post graduate salary is meagre. The working environment is toxic Academics Rankings The QS World University Rankings ranked SRM Institute of Science and Technology 301–350 in Asia in 2023.SRM Institute of Science and Technology ranked 29th among engineering colleges in India by India Today in 2020. The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranked it 28th in the engineering ranking, 15th in the pharmacy ranking, 18th among universities and 32nd overall in NIRF 2023. Notable alumni Nivetha Thomas, actress Murali Vijay, cricketer Vishnu Vishal, actor Iswarya Menon, film actress Neeraj Madhav, actor Varun Chakravarthy, cricketer Abhay Jodhpurkar, singer Shebin Benson, actor Vishnu Prasanna, chess Grandmaster and coach of Gukesh D Shrutika, Actress See also SRM University, Andhra Pradesh References External links Official website The Institute of Medical Science (Tōkyō-daigaku Ikagaku Kenkyūjo 東京大学医科学研究所) is an ancillary establishment of Tokyo University. It succeeded the Institute of Infectious Diseases (伝染病研究所, Densenbyō Kenkyūjo) established in 1892 and is the foremost institute for medical and bioscience research in Japan. A research hospital is attached to the institute. The former Institute of Public Health was located on the site. History 1892: Dainihon Shiritu Eiseikai Fuzoku Densenbyo Kenkyujyo (Empire of Japan Private Sanitation Meeting Attachment Institute of Infectious Diseases) was established. 1899: It became the National Institute of Infectious Diseases under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior. 1914: The institute entered under the management of the Ministry of Education). 1916: It becomes an ancillary establishment of Tokyo Imperial University. 1967: Densenbyo Kenkyujyo (Institute of Infectious Diseases) was reorganized, then, Ikagaku Kenkyu-jyo (Institute of Medical Science) was established. Organization Department of Microbiology and Immunology Department of Cancer Biology Department of Basic Medical Sciences Donation Laboratories Human Genome Center Center for Experimental Medicine The Advanced Clinical Research Center International Research Center for Infectious Research facilities First Building Photographic Laboratory (Prof. Jun-ichiro Inoue) Research Hospital Administration Office Project Accounting Office Division of Molecular of Therapy (Prof. Arinobu Tojo) Division of Medical Data Processing Network System (Prof. Tetsuo Shimizu) Executive Project Coordination Office Department of Advanced Medical Science (Prof. Naohide Yamashita) Division of Infectious Diseases (Prof. Aikichi Iwamoto) Division of Biochemistry (Associate Prof. Seiichi Takasaki) Library Director's Office (Prof. Naohide Yamashita) Dean's Office (Prof. Motoharu Seiki) Division of Bioengineering (Prof. Hideaki Tahara) Division of Cellular Therapy (Associate Prof. Kohichiro Tsuji) Division of Cellular Therapy (Prof. Toshio Kitamura) Research Hospital Second Building Laboratory of Social Genome Sciences (Prof. Ichizo Kobayashi) Division of Fine Morphology (Prof. Eisaku Katayama) Third Building Laboratory of Molecular Genetics (Prof. Izumu Saito) Division of Oncology (Prof. Tadashi Yamamoto) Laboratory of Functional Genomics (Prof. Sumio Sugano) Division of Neuronal Network (Prof. Toshiya Manabe) Department of Infectious Disease Control (Division of Microbial Infection) (Prof. Tetsuro Matano) Department of Infectious Disease Control (Division of Viral Infection) (Associate Prof. Yasushi Kawaguchi) Department of Infectious Disease Control (Division of Bacterial Infection) (Associate Prof. Ichiro Nakagawa) B Common Laboratory (Prof. Chieko Kai) Culture Media Section (Prof. Jun-ichiro Inoue) Fourth Building Division of Molecular Pathology (Prof. Yoshinori Murakami) Division of Clinical Immunology (Prof. Chikao Morimoto) Laboratory of Cell Biology (Prof. Yoichiro Iwakura) Division of Host-Parasite Interaction (Prof. Hideo Iba) Division of Infectious Genetics (Prof. Kensuke Miyake) Radioisotope laboratories (Prof. IWAKURA Yoichiro Iwakura) Radioisotope laboratories Clinical Research Building A Division of Cell Processing (CERES) ((Visiting) Prof. Tsuneo Takahashi) Cord blood bank Clinical Research Building B Div. Hematopoietic Factors Chugai (Head: Toshio Kitamura) Research Building (annex) Open Laboratory Building Division of Molecular and Developmental Biology (Oriental･Tomy･Softbank) (Prof.(Visiting) Sumiko Watanabe) Division of Stem Cell Engineering (Tooth Regeneration) (Prof. (Visiting) Minoru Ueda) Division of Exploratory Research (Ain Pharmaciez) (Associate Prof. (Visiting) Masahiro Kami) The Core Facility for Therapeutic Vectors The Scintiscanner room General Research Building Laboratory of DNA Information Analysis (Prof. Satoru Miyano) Laboratory of Molecular Medicine (Prof. Yusuke Nakamura) Laboratory of Functional Analysis in silico (Prof. Kenta Nakai) Laboratory of Genome Technology (Associate Prof. Toyomasa Katagiri) Division of Cancer Cell Research (Prof. Motoharu Seiki) Division of Molecular Biology (Prof. Yoshikazu Nakamura) Division of Mucosal Immunology (Prof. Hiroshi Kiyono) Division of Molecular Cell Signaling (Prof. Haruo Saito) Division of Bacterial Infection (Prof. Chihiro Sasakawa) Division of Virology (Prof. Yoshihiro Kawaoka ) Pathogenic Microbes Repository Unit (Prof. Chihiro Sasakawa) Laboratory Animal Research Center (Prof. Chieko Kai) Laboratory of Stem Cell Therapy (Prof. Hiromitsu Nakauchi) Division of Cellular and Molecular Biology (Prof. Jun-ichiro Inoue) Laboratory of Gene Expression and Regulation (Prof. Nobuaki Yoshida) Human Genome Center Laboratory of Genome Database (Prof. Minoru Kanehisa) Laboratory of Sequence Analysis Department of Public Policy (Associate Prof. Kaori Mutou) Laboratory of Functional Genomics (Prof. Mark Lathrop, Associate Prof. Masao Nagasaki) RIKEN SNP Research Center Radioisotope Control Room Super Computer Room Radioisotope laboratories (Human Genome Center) (Prof. Yusuke Nakamura) Radioisotope Laboratory Human Genome Center (annex) Animal Center Its gross area is 3.800 m2 Clinical center Hospital Building A (New Hospital Building) Hospital Building B (Clinical Center) Surgical Center Medical Supply Center Cell Processing and Transfusion Dialysis room Applied Genomics Laboratory Medicine Hospital Building C (MRI Facility) Adjunct facilities Amgen Hall This structure was donated from Amgen to the Institute of Medical Science to support medical science research. It contains a main conference room, a smaller conference room, and a laboratory for Tumor Cell Biology (Prof. Toshiki Watanabe) Crest Hall International Hall Shirokane Hall In 1999, the house for the co-op (生協, Sheikyō) was remade into Shirokane Hall. Medical Science Museum See also Constructions of the University of Tokyo National Institute of Public Health of Japan Inner links Campuses of other Global 30 in Japan Campus of the University of Tokyo Campus of Keio University Campus of Kyushu University External links The Institute of Medical Science, The University of Tokyo Media related to Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo at Wikimedia Commons All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bilaspur (AIIMS Bilaspur) is an Indian public medical school, hospital and an Institute of National importance in Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh, India. It is one of the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMSs). Prime Minister Modi laid the foundation stone of the institute in October 2017, and was subsequently inaugurated in October 2022. Academics The institute became operational with the first batch of 50 MBBS students, one of the four AIIMSs to become operational in academic year 2020–21. PGIMER Chandigarh is the mentor institute of AIIMS Bilaspur. See also All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Guwahati Manipal College of Medical Sciences (MCOMS) is a private medical college at Pokhara, Nepal. It is associated with Manipal Teaching Hospital, and enrols about 100 students each year for the MBBS medical qualification. Senior staff CEO: Anil Oduvil Director Academics (Clinical Sciences): Dr. Abhishek Maskey Associate Director Academics (Clinical Sciences): Dr Ramchandra Kafle Director Academics (Basic Sciences): Dr. Shishir Gokhale Associate Director Academics (Basic Sciences): Dr Daya Ram Pokharel Director (Basic Sciences): Dr. Shishir Gokhale Hospital Director: Dr. Abhishek Maskey Location MCOMS has two locations in Pokhara. The basic sciences campus is located at Deep Heights, and 1st and 2nd year courses are taught there. The administrative block is also located at Deep Heights. The clinical campus with the teaching hospital, is located at Phulbari, Pokhara, overlooking the Annapurna mountain range. Courses Post-graduation (MD/MS) MBBS PCL Nursing B.SC. Nursing (started 2009) MBBS The annual enrolment for the MBBS degree is 100 students (data from 2019). The majority of the students are of Nepalese and Indian origin. Students from other nations such as: Sri Lanka, Maldives, United States of America (NRN), Canada (NRN), etc. are also enrolled. Many elective students visit from American and European Universities and have the opportunity for hands on training. Subjects covered: Anatomy Biochemistry Community Medicine-Part I Microbiology Pathology Pharmacology PhysiologyThe basic science training takes place at Deep Campus. After passing all the subjects of basic sciences, a student is promoted to the clinical aspect of the course. The next five semesters are devoted to the study of clinical sciences, and are held at Manipal Teaching Hospital, Pokhara. The students are intensively trained and evaluated. The third year university examinations are held at the end of the 7th semester, and include the following subjects: Community Medicine-Part II Forensic Medicine Ophthalmology OtorhinolaryngologyAfter the successful completion of all 4 subjects of the third year, a student is allowed to take the final year examinations which consist of: Medicine and allied subjects (Part I & II) Surgery and allied subjects (Part I & II) Obstetrics and Gynecology Pediatrics Recognition MCOMS is recognised by the Medical Council of Nepal, Sri Lanka, and other countries. It is also recognized by WHO and under FAIMER. Hospital Manipal Teaching Hospital (MTH) is a 700-bedded hospital, located at Phulbari, Pokhara. The 5-storey hospital building houses an extensive medical library, students classrooms, a canteen, the main atrium, an auditorium along with outpatient departments and inpatient wards. All the medical students and faculty reside close by in other buildings. Treatment cost Treatment cost is reasonably affordable. Most tests and interventions are cheaper than that of government hospitals. There is also a Poor Patients' Fund (PPF) that provides free treatment to poor patients. Poor Patients' Fund (PPF) Also known as Asha, the PPF is an NGO managed by the students (mainly the 5th semester students). Funds are raised by the students by various means such as organizing movie shows, dances, college fetes, sales of T-shirts and sweat shirts, donations from the students and faculty, etc. The fund supports the cost of treatment of those patients who are unable to afford it themselves. Criticism and Controversies Medical education in Nepal is highly controversial as many qualified students are turned away in lieu of competitive marks. Corruption is rampant with schools accepting students based on connections to established figures or illicit donations made to the school. The hidden tuition, as it's referred, is the additional cost of bribing officials in the education and healthy ministry with some students paying triple the tuition fees for enrollment.Dr. Govinda KC is a staunch supporter of medical education reform in Nepal and has long advocated to break the education mafia present in the system. References External links Manipal College website Bhagwan Mahavir Institute of Medical Sciences previously known as Vardhman Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) is a government medical college situated at Pawapuri, in the Nalanda district of the Indian state of Bihar. It is affiliated with Bihar University of Health Sciences, previously affiliated with Aryabhatta Knowledge University. It was established in year 2011, it offers UG and PG courses in medical field as well as paramedical specialisation across 5 different specializations. See also References External links Vardhman Institute of Medical Sciences http://buhs.ac.in/ The Academy of Military Medical Sciences (AMMS) of the People's Liberation Army Academy of Military Sciences (Chinese: 中国人民解放军军事科学院军事医学研究院) is a Chinese military medical research institute. It was established in Shanghai in 1951. It has been based in Beijing since 1958. In October 2011, the drug Night Eagle, developed to help soldiers cope with sleep deprivation during missions, was unveiled in an exhibition marking the institute's 60th anniversary.In December 2014, the Chinese government announced that the Academy of Military Medical Sciences had developed an Ebola virus vaccine candidate that had been approved for clinical trials.In December 2021, the United States Department of Commerce added the Academy of Military Medical Sciences to the Entity List, accusing it of aiding in the Uyghur genocide. COVID-19 vaccine During the COVID-19 pandemic, the AMMS partnered with CanSino Biologics to develop Convidecia. The development team, led by Chen Wei, registered a Phase 1 trial in March 2020 and a Phase 2 trial in April 2020. It conducted its Phase III trials in Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Pakistan, Russia, and Saudi Arabia with 40,000 participants. In February 2021, global data from Phase III trials and 101 COVID cases showed the vaccine had a 65.7% efficacy in preventing moderate symptoms of COVID-19, and 91% efficacy in preventing severe disease. It has similar efficacy to the Janssen vaccine, another one-shot adenovirus vector vaccine with 66% efficacy in a global trial. Convidecia is also similar to other viral vector vaccines like the Oxford–AstraZeneca vaccine and Sputnik V vaccine. Its single-dose regimen and standard refrigerator storage requirement (2°to 8 °C) could make it a favorable vaccine option for many countries.Convidecia is approved for use by some countries in Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Production capacity for Ad5-NCov should reach 500 million doses in 2021. Manufacturing will take place in China, Malaysia, Mexico, and Pakistan.The vaccine was the first one approved outside of clinical trials in an expedited decision, which authorized its use only by the Chinese military. See also Wu Dechang, radiation toxicologist and former President of AMMS JK-05 References External links Official website Cureus: Journal of Medical Science is a web-based peer-reviewed open access general medical journal using prepublication peer review. It is also the first academic journal which provides authors with step-by-step templates for them to use to write their papers. The journal's founding editors-in-chief are John R. Adler (Stanford University) and Alexander Muacevic (University of Munich). History and publication process The journal was originally started as PeerEMed in 2009, obtaining its current name in December 2012. Under its system, after an article is published, anyone can review it, but the reviews of experts will be given a higher score. As of December 2022, the journal became part of the Springer Nature group of journals. Abstracting and indexing The journal is abstracted and indexed in the Emerging Sources Citation Index. Controversies Its peer-review process involves asking experts to review a given article in a few days, which results in its peer reviews taking much less time than those of most other journals do. Adler told Retraction Watch in 2015 that Yes Cureus has an unusually fast review process, which is an important part of the journal’s philosophy. We believe that post publication peer review, a focus of our journal through commenting and our unique SIQ process, is potentially a more powerful way to discern truth. Nevertheless, the speed and the quality of this peer review process, as well as the article-level metric Scholarly Impact Quotient (SIQ) used by Cureus has attracted the criticism of librarians and scientists who worry that the SIQ could be gamed.A study conducted by librarians of Emory University found that Cureus was in the top 2 of institutional publications deemed predatory or untrustworthy.Cureus was also criticized for having published a revision of an article that had been elsewhere retracted because of methodological reasons and scrutiny for “possible violations of medical ethics and human rights” (the results of a Covid-19 proxalutamide trial in Brazil).In April 2022, Cureus displayed a Wall of Shame to highlight authors who have committed egregious ethical violations as well as the institutions that enabled them. This feature drew criticism as it unjustly put the emphasis on individuals, in particular the corresponding author. This feature was withdrawn in May 2023. In April 2022, Cureus published notes of concerns relating to nearly 50 papers published without the knowledge of the corresponding author/disputed authorship. In January 2024, 56 papers were retracted. References External links Official website All India Institute of Medical Sciences Kalyani (abbr. AIIMS Kalyani) is a Public hospital and Medical school in Saguna, Kalyani, West Bengal, India. It is one of the AIIMS and Institutes of National Importance. The institute was announced in 2014 and approved on 7 October 2015, and Its construction started in 2016. As per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare notification published in The Gazette of India on 24 January 2018, it was established by Government of India under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) initiative. AIIMS Kalyani started operation in 2019, which was one of six AIIMSs that started operation autonomously that year. The institution has a 960 bedded super specialty hospital with a medical college. Hospital and AYUSH have 920 beds, and the remaining 40 beds are in OPD. The super specialty hospital has 34 departments including Anaesthesiology, Biochemistry, Anatomy, Cardiology and Physiology.It is an undergraduate and postgraduate institution that enrolls 211 students yearly. The yearly MBBS intake is 125 from 2020 and selection is done through NEET(UG). There is also a B.Sc. Nursing College. History Proposal: 1994–2014 In 1994, after talking to the central government, Prasanta Sur, health minister in the then Left government, announced the initial decision to build an AIIMS-style hospital in Kalyani. Pranab Mukherjee, the then chairman of the Planning Commission, also approved Rs 10 crore in the sector. On September 26 that year, the then President Shankar Dayal Sharma laid the foundation stone of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Science and Research on the land. It was then said that it would be developed as an AIIMS-style hospital. AIIMS Kalyani was set up as part of the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) initiative, announced by the Government of India in 2003 and officially launched in March 2006, for the purpose of correcting regional imbalances in the availability of affordable/reliable tertiary healthcare services, through setting up AIIMS Delhi-like institutions and upgrading government medical colleges.Establishing an AIIMS in West Bengal was proposed in 2012 as part of the 12th Five-Year Plan, with the original location proposed being Raiganj, 400 kilometres (250 mi) from the capital Kolkata, but by June 2014, the proposed location was changed to Kalyani, only 50 kilometres (31 mi) from the capital. PMSSY: Phase IV The AIIMS was officially announced in July 2014, in the budget speech for 2014–15, where the Minister of Finance Arun Jaitley announced a budget of ₹500 crore (equivalent to ₹799 crore or US$100 million in 2023) for setting up the four Phase-IV AIIMSs, in Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra and the Purvanchal region in Uttar Pradesh. In March 2015, the union cabinet gave an official approval for the location, on a 150-acre lot in the village Basantapur, near Kalyani. A budget of ₹1,754 crore (US$220 million) was approved in October 2015 and the 179.82-acre lot of land was handed over from the West Bengal government to the central government in December of that year. Founding The construction work of the institute's campus started in 2016. The institute was established by the Union Government in exercise of the powers conferred by the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences Act, 1956 (25 of 1956) as per Ministry of Health and Family Welfare notification on 24 January 2018. The mentoring institution was AIIMS Bhubaneswar, the first director appointed was Dipika Deka and Chitra Sarkar selected as president. Deka resigned in May 2019, leaving the director's position open. In March 2020, Ramji Singh was appointed as new director. Developments The institute became operational with the first batch of 50 MBBS students, which one of the six AIIMSs to become operational in 2019. Classes started in September 2019. Temporarily, classes of the first batch were taken at the College of Medicine & JNM Hospital campus in Kalyani, while students were already staying at the hostel on the campus. In 2020, the number of MBBS seats was increased from 50 to 125.On 1 March 2022, first Academic season of B.Sc (Nursing) course with 60 number of seats capacity inaugurated by institute president. In November 2022, Institute has been permitted to run postgraduate courses with 26 number of seats allocated for INI-CET January 2023 session. Logo The seal of the institution highlights various famous structures, agricultural crops, places and rivers of Bengal. Above and below the seal, the name of the institution is written in Sanskrit and English respectively, and a total of two rice sheafs are depicted on each side. This is indicative of paddy, the main agricultural crop of Bengal. There is a picture of a book after Rod of Asclepius. The book represents the portrait of Kalyani AIIMS as an institution providing education to medical students. The blue waters in the lower part represent the Hooghly River and the bridge above the blue water represents the Howrah Bridge or Rabindra Setu. The roots-like part beneath the bars of Asclepius represents the mangrove forests of the Sundarbans formed by the Gangetic Delta, Brahmaputra, Meghna River which houses many Flora and fauna recognized by UNESCO World Heritage Site.The Bengal tiger symbolizes the pride of Bengal also the national animal of our country. The pictures of the two fish in the seal refer to the abundance of fish in the river of Bengal and a food source in Bengal. The concept of seal design was conceived by Madhavan C, an assistant professor of physiology. Campuses AIIMS Kalyani's 179.82 acres (0.7277 km2) campus is in Saguna, Kalyani, West Bengal, an affluent suburban residential community 50 kilometres (31 mi) north of downtown Kolkata. It is directly north of the NH 34 Connector (the road connects Kalyani with NH 34), directly west of the Jamuna river and about 12 km east of Hooghly river. The campus is located in Seismic Zone III.The campus is divided into three parts: Residential area, Institutional area and Service area. Basically, the southern part of the campus is the Institutional area and the northern part is the Residential area. But Dharamshala block is located in the southern part of the campus, which is part of the Residential area. There are 10 buildings in the Institutional area and 16 in the Residential area. Also, the Service area is roughly located near the boundary wall at the western end of the campus, such as electrical substations. The campus consists of mostly housing and academic buildings for the MBBS students, B.Sc (Nursing) students, and staff. Infrastructure (buildings and roads etc.) covers a total area of 57650.21 square meters, which is about 7.92% of the total campus's area. The hospital block is at the southern end of the campus, which is located near the main entrance to the campus. It covers a total area of 22,574.16 square meters. Ayush Block (Ayurveda and Homeopathy) is directly west of the Outpatient department (OPD) building, and only liquid oxygen plant of the institution is located to the west of the Inpatient department (IPD) building. There is only one canteen named Dharamshala within the campus, which is located west of Ayush Block. Seven hostel buildings are located north of the parking lot (for AIIMS staff) and auditorium. The hostel buildings can accommodate a total of 1397 students. The complex of medical college building, nursing college building and laboratory building (medical) is to the north of the hospital building and to the west of the institution's administrative building. There are 5 residential buildings for staff, one guest house and an executive director's residence in the northern part of the campus. Granite, marble and vitrified tiles have been used for flooring in the buildings.The parking area within the campus has a total area of 68,981 square meters, which can accommodate about 2999 cars. Parking spaces are provided at suitable locations near the activity area. For smooth flow of vehicular traffic and to avoid accidents during vehicular movement, the road system of the campus is designed as per NBC code or regulations. Organisation and administration Governance The institute is governed by a board of administrative officers or governing body, which includes president and director of the institute, chief secretary of the Government of West Bengal, the vice-chancellor of the University of Calcutta, director of IIT Kharagpur, secretary of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and 5 others. They monitor the operation of the institute and its funding. There are three committees are within the governing body: Standing Academic Committee, Standing Selection Committee and Standing Finance Committee. In November 2018, Chitra Sarkar became the 1st president of the institute. The institute is funded by the Government of India. Faculties and departments The institute has 34 departments, which includes Anaesthesiology, Biochemistry, Anatomy, Cardiology, Physiology and 29 others. Academics Admission For MBBS courses, admission is based on the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET–UG) rankings. Meanwhile, for postgraduate courses (MD, MS and MDS), one has to take a National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET–PG) conducted by the National Board of Examinations. A merit list is prepared on the basis of the examination results, on the basis of which list the students are admitted. A candidate must have MBBS degree to get admission in MD or MS course. The institution admits medical students as well as nursing students. For B.Sc. nursing course, students need to clear the AIIMS Nursing Entrance Test. Admission is done on the basis of students's rank in merit list. Courses The institute offers both Undergraduate and Postgraduate degree courses. MBBS and B.Sc. Nursing courses are offered under Undergraduate degree. MD, MS, and MDS courses are offered under Postgraduate degree. The institute offers MD, MS, and MDS courses in 16 different subjects. Research AIIMS Kalyani has been closely associated with research activities since its establishment. Research in medicine and allied sciences is one of the major functions of AIIMS Kalyani. A total of 12 research projects have been initiated by the faculty members of AIIMS Kalyani in 2019–20. The institute runs a Short Term Studentship (STS) scheme under Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The Institute signed MoU with another premier Institution IISER Kolkata for further Research & Development oppotutnities in Jan 2020. signed a MoU for development of a collaborative platform for academic and research promotion and potential faculty and students exchange program in near future with IIIT Kalyani in September 2021. In July 2023 signed an agreement with IIT Kharagpur for collaboration in education, research and medical services. Library The central library at the campus was started in March 2021. It was inaugurated on March 8, 2021, by Executive Director Dr. Ramji Singh. Unified Library Services for AIIMS Kalyani Central Library started on 27 March 2021.The library building consists of three floors (ground, first and second floors) with a carpet area of 2,608.596 square feet and a seating capacity of about 250 persons. The library is open up to 9pm, 7 days a week including Sundays and holidays, except national holidays. Its current collection consists of 800 printed books. The library also has a large number of e-resource material. Patient care On 27 January 2021, outpatient department (OPD) service was opened at the permanent campus, with departments of general medicine, general surgery obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics, dermatology, ophthalmology, ENT and Psychiatry. Criticism and controversies On May 20, 2022, a CID West Bengal lodged a FIR at Nadia Police Station based on a complaint filed by one Sariful Islam from Murshidabad. Sariful, also an applicant at AIIMS alleged corruption and use of power. Four BJP MLA, MP including Union Minister of State for Education Subhas Sarkar have been named in FIR, accusing them of using their influence to get jobs for their relatives at AIIMS, Kalyani. Relatives of two BJP MLAs have already been questioned in the case. References External links Media related to All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Kalyani at Wikimedia Commons Official website The Medical Science Monitor is a peer-reviewed general medical journal. It was established in 1995 in Poland and has been published by International Scientific Information based in Melville, New York, U.S.A. since 2002. It was published in both print and online formats until 2012, at which point the journal became online-only. The editor-in-chief is Richard M. Kream. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2019 impact factor of 1.918. Medical Science Monitor is indexed in JCR Clarivate, PubMed, PubMed PMC, EMBASE, and Scopus, which provide abstracts and indexing for publications in established medical journals. References External links Official website Pre-medical (often referred to as pre-med) is an educational track that undergraduate students in the United States pursue prior to becoming medical students. It involves activities that prepare a student for medical school, such as pre-med coursework, volunteer activities, clinical experience, research, and the application process. Some pre-med programs providing broad preparation are referred to as “pre-professional” and may simultaneously prepare students for entry into a variety of first professional degree or graduate school programs that require similar prerequisites (such as medical, veterinary, or pharmacy schools). Major At most colleges and universities, students do not have the option of pre-medical academic major or minor. A student on a pre-med track may choose any undergraduate major in any field, so long as certain required courses are completed. Such courses are generally focused in the scientific fields of biology, chemistry, organic chemistry, neuroscience, behavioral sciences and physics, which are necessary to prepare for the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) and satisfy most medical school prerequisites. It is for this reason students on a pre-med track generally undertake a major associated with one of those fields; however, an increasing number of students with a background in humanities have been applying in recent years, a situation applauded by medical schools. For example, Mount Sinai School of Medicine has created a program specifically for non-science majors. The Humanities and Medicine (HuMed) program admits undergraduates majoring in the humanities or social sciences without requiring the MCAT, or science coursework. Pre-med timeline Typical pre-med students will structure their coursework in their first year in university to accommodate the required courses. After a semester, many pursue extracurricular activities that demonstrate a commitment to medicine. Once junior year arrives, students register for and take the MCAT, the required standardized exam that medical schools use to identify qualified candidates. Once the test is taken, students apply to various schools using the automated American Medical College Application Service (AMCAS) system, American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine Application Service (AACOMAS) system, or in some cases, the school's own application system. AMCAS primary applications are verified by AMCAS staff, a process that often takes four to six weeks. The application process consists of a review of academic records, MCAT scores, activities, work experience, and a personal statement. Applicants can expect to hear from schools within a few months, at which point they may receive secondary applications.Different schools have different policies on sending secondary applications to students; many send secondary applications to all students, others screen applications prior to inviting an applicant to submit a secondary application. These applications are generated by each individual school. They generally contain essay questions that the applicant must answer to demonstrate that the applicant possesses qualities that the schools deem necessary to be a good medical student and physician. Qualified applicants can next expect to receive invitations to interview at schools. Upon completion of an interview and receipt of any additional application materials, the application is considered to be complete, and the student then waits for the school's decision to either accept or reject the student.Some applicants receive admittance to medical school through a post-baccalaureate pre-medical program. These programs may be formal, such as the programs offered through Columbia, Johns Hopkins, George Washington, Mayo Clinic with Barrett, The Honors College, Bryn Mawr, Goucher and Scripps, or semi-formal, such as the program offered at Harvard, but often consist of a student informally enrolling in a college to complete science coursework required for admission to medical school prior to sitting for the MCAT. The Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) maintains a list of all formal and semi-formal post-baccalaureate pre-medical programs in the United States. Coursework The AAMC has created a list of required courses that every pre-med student must take. Each school is allowed to place its own further requirements. The pre-medical coursework is offered at many American colleges and universities; however, it is considered to be a track that follows a certain curriculum. Most pre-medical students major in the natural and applied sciences, such as agricultural science, biology, chemistry, or physics, though this is not a requirement. Some pre-professional degree programs in agriculture prepare students for direct entry into the workforce in fields in high demand, while also meeting requirements for medical or veterinary schools. The latter curriculum model is meant to enhance employability of graduates awaiting admission or choosing not to attend professional or graduate school. The courses that must be taken to meet the pre-medical requirements from the AAMC are three years, with one being in chemistry, one year of biology, and one year of physics. These course requirements are expected to change since the MR5 Committee, charged with revising the MCAT has created a new set of core competencies for success in medical education and practice. Those core competencies will include a greater emphasis on molecular genetics within the biology curriculum and will include biochemistry. In addition, the 2015 MCAT will test in areas related to multicultural sensitivity and in critical analysis of ethics and philosophy.Many colleges of medicine and undergraduate pre-medical advising offices have yet to formalize pre-medical curricular recommendations. Though it did not address changes in the mathematics, physics, psychosocial or humanities portion of pre-medical education, the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (ASBMB) developed a set of pre-medical curricular recommendations. ASBMB advocated that the year of biology includes genetics; that general and organic chemistry be taught with an orientation toward the chemistry of molecules encountered in living things; that one semester of biochemistry be required and two semesters of biochemistry be recommended; and that the laboratory course requirement can be taught in biology, chemistry or biochemistry, so long as research methods and data analysis are emphasized.Pre-medical students may be advised or required to take upper-level biology and chemistry electives, such as cellular biology, physical chemistry, biochemistry, molecular biology and genetics. Specific requirements for these courses vary by institution. Organic Chemistry is one of the most popular upper-level courses. Schools may also have requirements for non-science classes. Some require a certain number of general humanities credits, while others have specific requirements for courses in English, psychology, or other desired disciplines. Volunteering and clinical experiences Many pre-medical students volunteer in a health care setting to explore the option of a career in medicine. Past volunteer experience can increase an applicant's chances of acceptance to a medical school. Often volunteer experiences are topics of discussion during medical school interviews. Some students shadow a physician, where the student follows a physician, directly observing the doctor as they care for patients. Other countries In Australia and the United Kingdom, a number of universities offer a three- or four-year Bachelor of Medical Science, Bachelor of Health Sciences or Biomedical Science degree, which is similar in content and aim to pre-med courses in the US. See also Pre-health sciences Flexner Report Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences (AJUMS) is a medical school in Khuzestan Province of Iran. Located in southwestern Iran in the city of Ahvaz, the university was established as a College of Medicine administered by the Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz in 1955, which itself was a revived reincarnation of the Academy of Gundishapur that existed in the same area in antiquity. The university separated and fell under the Ministry of Health and Medical Education of Iran in 1986. The university has 3 campuses in Ahvaz, Behbahan, and Abadan, and is constituted of 9 Schools, offering doctorate degrees in science and medicine in 27 fields. The university administers 8 public hospitals in the city of Ahvaz, and 20 other hospitals in the surrounding areas, as well as dozens of clinics scattered across the province. Faculties Faculty of Pharmacy: The faculty of pharmacy is the only pharmacy faculty in the south of Iran. It was established in 1974. The educational program offered in this school are based upon Iran's nationwide educational schedule prepared by the Ministry of Health and Medical Education of Iran. The degrees available in this faculty are Doctorate of Pharmacy (for Pharmacy students), Ph.D. in Pharmacology, Ph.D. in Pharmaceutics and MSc in Toxicology. Faculty of Medicine Faculty of Allied Health sciences: the School of Hospital Sciences was established at the university in 1972. The school offered programs in the fields of laboratory sciences, radiology sciences, and maritime sciences. The school was renamed afterward to a school of Para-Medicine Sciences. The Para-Medicine school expanded its programs to nutrition sciences, laboratory sciences, anesthesiology, library and information sciences, radiology sciences and health information technology sciences. Prof. Dr. Mohammad Taha Jalali is the dean of the Para-medicine School. Faculty of Health Faculty of Dentistry Faculty of Nursing: the nursing and midwifery faculty was established in October 1968. It began by accepting 20 nursing students per year. Students attend a three-year program and received a certificate equivalent to a bachelor's degree. In 1970 the program was extended to four years and enrolled 30 nursing students per year. Scientific journals Jundishapur Journal of Microbiology (Editor in chief, Professor Ali Zarei Mahmoudabadi, mycologist) Jundishapur Journal of Natural Pharmaceutical Products Jentashapir Journal of Health Research Jundishapur Journal of Chronic Disease Care Jundishapur Journal of Health Sciences Jundishapur Journal of Oncology References External links Official website imam khomeini hospital 7th Iranian Congress of Medical Physics at AJUMS, 2006 Emergency Medicine Department Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) is the medical school of the Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology situated in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India. This institute began offering MBBS courses in medical stream courses in 2007.Its sister institute Kalinga Institute of Dental Sciences (KIDS) offers courses in Dental Science. History The idea of a medical college was conceived by Achyuta Samanta. Construction of the college building was completed in 2004, the faculties were appointed. Initially, the hospital was a makeshift facility in the Godown area of the former MAGNETIC company.In June 2005 the new hospital building was complete. The hospital acquired new equipment like a CT scan. 2006 saw the beginning of the inspection processes by the MCI and in June 2007 KIMS was formally given permission to start MBBS course. The institute was earlier affiliated to Utkal University, however in 2009 in came under the ambit of KIIT University. In 2013, KIMS got permanent affiliation from Medical Council of India (MCI). Rankings The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranked Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences 32 overall in India in 2020 among medical rankings. References External links KIMS home page Institute of National Importance (INI) is a status that may be conferred on a premier public higher education institution in India by an act of Parliament of India, an institution which serves as a pivotal player in developing highly skilled personnel within the specified region of the country/state. Institutes of National Importance receive special recognition, higher autonomy and funding from the Government of India. Common Acts Architecture Schools of Planning and Architecture (SPA) are declared as Institutes of National Importance through the 'School of Planning and Architecture Act, 2014' and its subsequent amendments. Design National Institutes of Design (NID) are declared as an Institution of National Importance through the 'National Institute of Design Act 2014' and its subsequent amendments.Footwear Design and Development Institute comprising 12 campuses is declared as an Institution of National Importance through the 'FDDI Act 2017'. Engineering and Technology Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) are declared as Institutes of National Importance through the Institutes of Technology Act, 1961 and its subsequent amendments. National Institutes of Technology (NIT) , IIEST Shibpur are declared as Institutes of National Importance through the National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research Act, 2007 and its subsequent amendments. Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIIT) are declared as Institutes of National Importance through the 'Indian Institute of Information Technology Act, 2014' and the 'Indian Institutes of Information Technology (Public-Private Partnership) Act, 2017' and their subsequent amendments. Food Technology National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management, Kundli (NIFTEM-K) and National Institute of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management, Thanjavur (NIFTEM-T) are declared Institutes of National Importance through the National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Act, 2021. Management Indian Institutes of Management (IIM) are declared as Institutes of National Importance through the Indian Institutes of Management Act, 2017 and its subsequent amendments. Medicine All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) are declared as Institutes of National Importance through the 'All India Institute of Medical Sciences Act, 1956' and its subsequent amendments. Pharmacy National Institutes of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER) are declared as Institutes of National Importance through the 'National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research Act, 1998' and its subsequent amendments. Science Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISER) , National Institute of Science Education and Research (NISER) , India Institute of Science (IISc) as Institutes of National Importance through the amendments in the National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research Act, 2007. Summary statistics As of July 2023, there are 167 Institutes of National Importance under various Acts of Parliament. These INIs include: 23 IITs, 20 AIIMSs, 21 IIMs, 31 NITs, 25 IIITs, 7 IISERs, 7 NIPERs, 5 NIDs, 3 SPAs, 2 NIFTEMs, 7 Central universities, 4 Medical research institutes, and 12 other specialized institutes. Indian Institute of Technology (IITs) Indian Institute of Management (IIMs) Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIITs) Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISERs) All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMSs) National Institute of Technology (NITs) National Institute of Design (NIDs) National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management (NIFTEMs) National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPERs) School of Planning and Architecture (SPAs) Central Universities Medical research Institutes Other Specialized Institutes Proposed Institutes of National Importance (INIs) The following institutes have been proposed as INIs through a bill: Armed Forces Medical College National Council of Educational Research and Training Homi Bhabha National Institute Indian Institute of Foreign Trade Indian Institute of Forest Management Central Institute of Petrochemicals Engineering and Technology See also Ivy League, a formal grouping of leading private universities in the United States Imperial Universities, a grouping of older universities in Japan Russell Group, a formal grouping of universities in the United Kingdom Golden Triangle (English universities), a group of universities in Oxford, Cambridge, London SKY (universities), a group of universities in South Korea TU9, alliance of nine leading Technical Universities in Germany Double First Class Universities, group of elite universities in China Institutes of Eminence BRICS Universities League, a consortium of leading research universities from BRICS countries Footnotes References External links Institutions of National Importance at Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education The University of Medical Sciences and Technology (UMST) is a co-educational mainly medical oriented college in Khartoum, Sudan. The mission of UMST is to serve the educational needs of Sudanese, African and Arab students. It is located in the Riyad district of Khartoum. It first opened its doors in 1995 with a student body of only forty students and two faculties. In 2017 it had become home to 5,000-6,000 students and costs US$15,000 for the school of medicine in 2018. The university has 14 faculties. In 2014 the University stated that 60% of its students were foreign. History The UMST began as a private, non-profit making educational Academy, in Khartoum, Sudan in 1996. UMST was established by Professor Mamoun Homeida former vice-chancellor at the University of Khartoum (and later Minister of Health for Khartoum State). Homeida also recruited several faculty members from the University of Khartoum. Since then, the Academy expanded to 14 undergraduate faculties, namely, Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Medical Laboratory Sciences, Radiological Sciences, Anaesthesia, Nursing Technology, Engineering, Computer Science and Information Technology, Business Administration, Economics Social and Environmental Studies, Mass Communication, and Law. It also has a School of Nursing Technology and offers 14 Master's degree programs, four PhD programs and four postgraduate diplomas. It became a full university in 2007.Annual student undergraduate fees for the year 2016-2017 ranged from US$1,500 (Nursing Diploma) to US$15,000 (Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery). Local Sudanese and international students pay the same fees.From 2014-2017 there were reports that about 20 students at UMST had been recruited by an organisation called the Islamic Cultural Organisation (ICO) to join ISIS. ICO was banned by Mamoun Homeida and UMST was not regarded by the British Medical Journal as a university particularly exposed to radical Islamic influences. Faculty of Medicine In Sudan, endemic diseases, mainly of tropical nature, constitute a significant cause of diseases and lay an extra burden on medical students learning. With these challenges in mind, the Faculty of Medicine was established in 1996.The Faculty of Medicine is equipped with lecture theatres and laboratories (Biochemistry, Physiology, Physics, Dissection room, Biology/Molecular biology and Skills laboratory). The Teaching Hospital and a number of health centers were established to receive the students. Two specialized high-tech diagnostic/treatment clinics were opened to receive the students for training: Yastabshiroon Centre where imaging techniques are housed, e.g., MRI, Spiral CT, ultrasound and echo scan, EEG, EMG, endoscopy with laparoscopic surgery, laser treatment facilities. UMST offers BM and BS undergraduate degrees in medicine, several MSc degrees (including Public and Tropical Health) and postgraduate diplomas in HIV/AIDS, Epidemiology And Biostatistics and Research Methodology and Biostatistics. Faculty of Dentistry The school of Dentistry was established in 1997 as part of Faculty of Medicine but was renamed Faculty of Dentistry in 1998 after expansion of buildings and departments. The Faculty of Dentistry conducts a course of studies leading the degree of Bachelor of Dental Surgery (B.D.S.) to students who satisfy the regulations and successfully pass the examinations undertaken during five academic years. The Faculty of Dentistry is located at the Academy Charity Teaching Hospital (ACTH), in Elimtidad, Khartoum, and among a heavily populated residential area which guarantees an excellent catchments of patients for training of students and within reach of transport facilities from the centre of Khartoum. The dental clinic equipped with dental units (one unit per student) is within the main outpatient department of ACTH . The Deans office, the lecture theatres and the laboratories are in one block and within 50 meters of the dental outpatient department. The School of Dental Technology share the same building. There are two lecture halls with a capacity of 42 students each, two phantom skills laboratories with 24 phantom heads for preclinical training in operative dentistry and fixed prosthodontics, chrome cobalt /porcelain and acrylics laboratories each with a capacity for 20 students at a time. Faculty of Pharmacy The Faculty of Pharmacy comprises lecture theatres, laboratories, a library and two teaching pharmacies which are located at the main Academy premises and at the Academy Charity Teaching Hospital. Faculty of Anaesthesia Sudan has a lack of the anaesthetists especially outside the Center State  Khartoum  as few universities have faculties of Anaesthesia Sciences which offer a four-year BSc in Anaesthesia. UMST was the third University to establish a BSc degree in Anaesthesia after the University of Gezira and Alzaiem Alazhari University .The UMST program consists of eight semesters covering medical sciences and anaesthesia courses and was approved by the Sudanese Ministry of Higher Education, Ministry of Health and the WHO . Candidates graduate as Anaesthesia Technologists . The first batch of anesthesia students at UMST started their studies in 2004. Graduates use the titles  Second Anesthesia Specialist  in Sudan,  Specialist of Anesthesia Technology  in Saudi Arabia and  anesthesia Technologist  in other Gulf countries. Faculty of Nursing Sciences The Faculty of Nursing Sciences started in 1999, as a part of the Academy of Medical Sciences and Technology. Apart from its undergraduate programs, UMST offers two master degrees in Nursing (in community & paediatrics) and a PhD program in Nursing Sciences. Faculty of Engineering The University of Medical Sciences and Technology established the Faculty of Engineering in 2002 to manage graduate education and research. The Faculty of Engineering manages teaching and research programs in the Faculty's departments of Biomedical Engineering and Electronics Engineering. Specialization-Option courses are designed to introduce the students to specialization in specific areas. Students select either from among departmental courses based on their personal interests or choose one or two option sequences from among those specified by their department.The course is 5 academic years in length and leads to a B.Sc. (Honors) in Biomedical Engineering (specialization in Bio-instrumentation, Medical Imaging and Medical Informatics) and Electronics Engineering (specialization in Communication and Control). The course is based on the international updated curricula on biomedical engineering and electronics engineering and is according to the guidelines laid by the Ministry of Higher Education and Sudan Engineering Council. The curriculum includes courses in life sciences, electronics, communication, electrical engineering computer sciences and information systems. The practical part of the medical science portion is conducted in the Faculty of Medicine laboratories and supervised by the faculty staff. The faculty has established advanced Electronics and Biomedical laboratories and workshop such as Electrical, Electronics, Communication, Digital and Bio-instrumentation, Biosensors, Microprocessor, Microcontroller & interfacing, CAD laboratories. All courses are conducted in English Language. Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology The Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology was established to satisfy an urgent need in Sudan for a program of advanced study & training in the field of Information Technology. References External links Official website All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bathinda (AIIMS Bathinda) is a medical college and medical research public university based in Bathinda, Punjab, India. As one of the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences, it operates autonomously under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. AIIMS Bathinda spreads over a large area of about 177 Acres and is surrounded by lush green parks. It became operational in 2019, one of the six AIIMS to do so in 2019. History Stone for AIIMS at Bathinda was laid in November 2016. AIIMS Bathinda was planned as a 750-bedded medical institute on 177 acre land having 10 speciality, 11 super speciality departments and 16 operation theatres. It is planned for 100 seats in medical college and 60 seats in nursing college. It became operational with the first batch of 50 MBBS students, which started in 2019 one of the six AIIMSs to become operational in 2019. The outpatient department (OPD) was inaugurated in December 2019, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) was assigned as its mentoring institution in August 2019 and Prof Dinesh Kumar Singh, Former Director of RIMS Ranchi was appointed director in March 2020. Campuses The first batch of MBBS of AIIMS Bathinda started at Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot campus on a temporary basis as AIIMS campus was under construction on the Bathinda-Dabwali road. Since October 2020 students have been shifted to the AIIMS Bathinda Campus. The Second Batch of 100 students started from December 2020 in the New Campus Itself. Academics AIIMS Bathinda was allotted 50 MBBS seats for the first session with 22 seats for general category students, 14 reserved for OBCs, 8 for SCs, 4 reserved for ST students and 2 seats reserved for persons with disabilities (PwD). The seat number has increased to 100 from batch 2020. The institute also offers 60 seats in B.Sc. Nursing. From 2020 session seats are increased for undergraduate courses and now 100 seats are available. External links Official website All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Rajkot (AIIMS Rajkot) is a public medical school and hospital based in Rajkot, Gujarat, India, and one of the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMSs). The first academic session of AIIMS Rajkot began on 21 December 2020. On 31 December 2020 Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the institute. Academics Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Harsh Vardhan virtually inaugurated the first academic batch of MBBS students 21 December 2020 for the 2020-21 batch. The institute became operational with the first batch of 50 MBBS students, one of the four AIIMSs to become operational in academic year 2020–21. In 2021 the institute functioned from a temporary campus at Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Medical College with AIIMS Jodhpur mentoring it. Tabriz University of Medical Sciences (TUOMS) (Persian: دانشگاه علوم پزشکی تبریز, Danushgah-e 'lum-e Pezeshki-ye Tebriz) is public medical sciences university located in Tabriz, East Azarbaijan Province, Iran. It is ranked as one of Iran's top medical school, with more than 5000 students. The University consists of eleven faculties: Medicine, Pharmacy, Dentistry, Paramedical Sciences, Health, Nutrition and Food Sciences, Rehabilitation, Nursing & Midwifery, Health management and medical informatics, Advanced Medical Sciences and Traditional Medicine. The school offers professional degrees in Medicine (M.D. ), Dentistry (D.D.S. ), Pharmacy (Pharm.D. ); Bachelor's, Master's, and Doctor of Philosophy(Ph.D.) in various other medically related subjects. The school also offers technical courses in pursuit of Associate's degrees and certification in medically related fields. In addition, TUMS operates over 10 teaching hospitals and is a major medical care provider in East Azarbaijan Province and the surrounding provinces. History The university was first established by the autonomous Azerbaijan People's Government under Jafar Pishevari on June 12, 1946, as the University of Azerbaijan (Azerbaijani: Azerbaycan Universitesi) with faculties in Medicine, Agriculture and Pedagogy. However, the university closed in November with the collapse of the autonomous government. It was re-opened on October 30, 1947, which is now officially set as its inauguration date. The university was called the University of Azarabadegan prior to the Islamic Revolution of 1979 and renamed the University of Tabriz afterwards. In 1985, the Iranian Ministry of Health, Treatment and Medical Education took over the departments and faculties in the medical sciences and the Tabriz University of Medical Sciences became an independent institution. Chancellors Chancellors of Tabriz University of Medical Sciences since its detachment from University of Tabriz: Dr. Seyyed Kazem Madayen, MD, Urologist Dr. Hossein Sadeghi Shoja, Physiologist Dr. Masoud Pezeshkian, MD, Cardiac Surgeon Dr. Mohammad Nouri, PhD, Biochemist Dr. Ahmad Reza Jodati, MD, Cardiac Surgeon Dr. Ahmad Ali Khalili, MD, Cardiac Surgeon Dr. Alireza Yaghoubi, MD, Cardiac Surgeon Dr. Mohammad Hossein Somi, MD, Gastroenterologist Faculties Tabriz University of Medical Sciences consists of 10 faculties which train students for undergraduate, graduate and postgraduate degrees. Being the largest faculty of the university, the Faculty of Medicine operates university-affiliated hospital and outpatient clinics together with departments of Basic Sciences which reside in the faculty. Basic Sciences departments of the Tabriz Faculty of Medicine include: Anatomy, Physiology, Biochemistry & Genetics, Microbiology, Immunology & Parasitology, Medical Physics and Community Medicine. Clinical departments are located in the university affiliated hospitals and include: Internal Medicine (other than Cardiology), Cardiology, Neurology, Infectious Diseases, Surgery, Cardiothoracic Surgery, Urologic Surgery, Orthopedic Surgery, Dermatology, Otolaryngology, Ophthalmology, Radiology, Psychiatry, Pediatrics, Gynecology & Obstetrics, Anesthesiology and Emergency Medicine. Tabriz Faculty of Pharmacy (Also known as Tabriz Pharmacy School) is ranked as the second most outstanding pharmacy school in the country. In addition to training general pharmacy doctors (Pharmacists), it provides Ph.D. degrees in the fields of Pharmaceutics, Pharmacology & Toxicology, Pharmacognosy, Pharmaceutical Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Chemistry. Tabriz University of Medical Sciences has 11 faculties: Faculty of Medicine Faculty of Pharmacy Faculty of Dentistry Faculty of Health Faculty of Nutrition Faculty of Nursing & Midwifery Faculty of Health Management and medical informatics Faculty of Para medicine Faculty of Rehabilitation Faculty Of Advanced Medical Sciences Traditional MedicineAnd Maragheh Faculty of Nursery & Midwifery Sarab Faculty of Medical Sciences Affiliated hospitals Tabriz University of Medical Sciences and Medical Services operates over 10 hospitals. Imam Khomein Hospital was the main educational hospital of the university before 2007. Afterwards Imam Reza hospital took over the principal clinical departments of the university and most sections of Imam Khomeini hospital was transferred to the newly organized Imam Reza hospital. Currently, Imam Reza hospital is now the main educational hospital of the university and also serves as the referral hospital of the city and East Azerbaijan Province. Imam Reza hospital has taken over the main clinical departments of the university including: Internal Medicine (other than Cardiology and Hematology/Oncology), Neurology, Infectious Diseases, Surgery, Urology, Neurosurgery, Otolaryngology, Radiology and Emergency Medicine. Shahid Madani Hospital serves as the heart center of TUMS (Madani Heart Center) and consists of cardiology and cardiac surgery wards, heart emergency care section and Coronary Care Unit (CCU). Madanai Heart Center was a part of Imam Khomeini Hospital before 1994 until it became an independent institution for cardiac surgery. Imam Reza Hospital does not administer all the clinical departments and wards of TUMS; other hospitals serve as referral centers for these. These include Dermatology (Sina Hospital), Hematology/Oncology (Shahid Ghazi Medical Center), Gynecology & Obstetrics (Alzahra and Taleghani Hospitals), Orthopedic Surgery (Shohada Hospital), Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation (Shohada Hospital), Ophthalmology (Nikoukari Hospital), Psychiatry (Razi Hospital) and Pediatrics (Children's Hospital). Bababaghi Leprosarium, which is also affiliated to TUMS, is one of the main centers of leprosy in Iran. This center has been serving leprosy patients since its establishment before the Islamic Revolution. Hospitals affiliated to Tabriz University of Medical Sciences: Imam Reza Hospital Shahid Madani (Imam Khomeini) Hospital Children's Hospital (Koudakan Hospital) Sina Hospital Razi Hospital Alzahra Hospital Shohada Hospital Bababaghi Hospital Taleghani Hospital Nikoukari Hospital Alavi Hospital Shahid Ghazi Medical Center Medical sciences research at TBZMED Tabriz University of Medical Science is responsible for more than 10 research centers where academics and students conduct research in medical science subjects. Research Vice-Chancellor Office is the administrator of biomedical research and manages most of TBZMED research centers except Drug Applied Research Center (DARC) and Tuberculosis & Lung Research Center which are independent research centers working under direct supervision of Ministry of Health & Medical Education. Student Research Committee is another institution which is supervised by research Vice-Chancellor Office and administers student research projects, workshops and scientific travels. Research centers of TBZMED: Neurosciences Research Center (NSRC) Immunology Research Center (IRC) Drug Applied Research Center (DARC) Tuberculosis and Lung Research Center Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology Research Center (RCPN) Liver and Gastrointestinal Diseases Research Center Nutritional Research Center Cardiovascular Diseases Research Center Research Center for Infectious Diseases and Tropical Medicine Clinical Research Center of Alzahra Gynecology and Obstetrics Hospital Biotechnology Research Center Hematology and Oncology Research Center National Public Health Management Center (NPMC) Incubator Center for Pharmaceutical Technology Student Research Committee See also Higher education in Iran List of universities in Iran University of Tabriz Tehran University of Medical Sciences References External links Official website This list refers to specific master's degrees in North America. Please see master's degree for a more general overview. Accountancy Master of Accountancy (MAcc, MAc, MAcy or MPAcc), alternatively Master of Professional Accountancy (MPAcy or MPA), or Master Science in Accountancy (MSAcy) is typically a one-year, non-thesis graduate program designed to prepare graduates for public accounting and to provide them with the 150 credit hours required by most states before taking the CPA exam. Master of Accounting (MAcc) is an 8-month degree offered by the University of Waterloo, School of Accounting and Finance in Canada that satisfies the 51 credit hours and CKE exam requirement needed to write the Chartered Accountant Uniform Final Exam (UFE) in the province of Ontario. The School also delivers a Master of Taxation program. The School is housed in the Faculty of Arts. Master of Professional Accounting (MPAcc) is a two-year, non-thesis graduate program offered by the University of Saskatchewan in Canada. In the United States, the University of Texas at Austin offers a Masters of Professional Accounting (MPA) degree. Administration Master of Business Administration (MBA), Master of Management (MAM), Master of Accountancy (MAcy), Master of Science in Taxation (MST), Master of Science in Finance (MSF), Master of Business and Organizational Leadership (MBOL), Master of Engineering Management (MEM), Master of Health Administration (MHA), Master of Not-for-Profit Leadership (MNPL), Master of Public Policy (MPP), Master of Policy, Planning and, Management (MPPM), Master of Public Administration (MPA), Master of International Affairs (MIA), Master of Global Affairs (MGA), Master of Strategic Planning for Critical Infrastructures (MSPCI), Master of Science in Strategic Leadership (MSSL), and Master of Science in Management (MSM) are professional degrees focusing on management for the private and public sectors, both domestic and international. Adult Education While other advanced degree education programs tend to be more widely known, the Master of Science in Adult Education provides professional educators with expert-level tools for success in the adult learning environment and advancement in educational leadership. As the name suggests, this degree program provides ample opportunity for the student to take a more scientific approach to the study of education. Many M.S. Adult Education programs offer concentrations in Community Service and Health Sciences (non-profit realm), Human Resources, Technology (distance learning), and Training and Development (corporate or for-profit environment). Advanced Study In the United States the Master of Advanced Study (M.A.S.) also the Master of Advanced Studies (MAS) degree is a post-graduate professional degree issued by numerous academic institutions, but most notably by the University of California. M.A.S. programs tend to concentrate on a set of coordinated coursework with culminating projects or papers rather than emphasizing student research and frequently are structured as interdisciplinary offerings.In Canada, the Master of Advanced Study degree is an independent research degree. Advanced Studies programs tend to be interdisciplinary and tend to be focused toward meeting the needs of professionals rather than academics. Appalachian Studies The Master of Appalachian Studies focuses on research into culture, i.e. music, sociology, and sustainability within the region of cultural and geographic region of Appalachia. This degree primarily develops understanding of the historical, political, geographic, and socio-economic circumstances that have led to Appalachia and similar regions to become what they are today. Applied Anthropology The Master of Applied Anthropology (MAA) is a two-year program focused on training non-academic anthropologists. The University of Maryland, College Park developed this program to encourage entrepreneurial approaches to careers outside academia, where most new anthropologists are likely to seek and find employment. For this reason, it is considered a professional degree rather than a liberal arts degree. Applied Politics The Master of Applied Politics is a 2-year master's degree program offered by The Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at The University of Akron. It is one of the few professional master's degree programs in the United States focusing on practical politics and efforts to influence political decisions. This includes winning elections, campaigning, fund raising, influencing legislation and strengthening political organizations. MAP graduates have gone on to manage campaigns, run for political office, join polling and fundraising firms, and start their own consulting firms. Applied Sciences The two Master's programs offered in Management Sciences provide both course work and research opportunities in the areas of operations research, information systems, management of technology, engineering and other areas. Operations research, mathematical modeling, economics, and organizational behavior, and other related concepts underlie success in almost all areas of management. Refer to the Master of Engineering degree section for more information. Architecture The 4+3 or 5-year Master of Architecture (M.Arch. I) is a first professional degree, after which one is eligible for internship credit [and subsequent exam] required for licensure. The 2-year Master of Architecture (M.Arch. II) is a graduate-level program which assumes previous coursework in architecture (B.Arch. or M. Arch I). Archival Studies The Master of Archival Studies degree is awarded following completion of a program of courses in archival science, records management and preservation. The degree was first offered at the University of British Columbia (Canada), and is currently offered at Clayton State University (Georgia). The Master of Archives and Records Administration is offered by San Jose State University (California). Bioinformatics The Master of Science in Bioinformatics degree builds on a background in biology and computing. Students learn how to develop software tools for the storage and manipulation of biological data. Graduates typically work in the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industries or in biomedical research. The career prospects are excellent. MS in Bioinformatics programs include Georgia Tech, IUPUI, among others. Biomedical Sciences The Master of Biomedical Sciences (MBS) degree prepares students to be highly competitive candidates for medical schools, related health professions, and other biomedical careers. The curriculum integrates graduate level human biological sciences with skill development in critical thinking, communication and teamwork. Broadcast Journalism The Master of Broadcast Journalism (MBJ) degree prepares students for reporting and journalism in television and radio broadcasting, i.e. on the scene reporting and newsroom newscasting and meteorology. Chemistry The Masters of Science in Chemistry is a degree that prepares recipients for jobs as higher-level industrial chemists, laboratory technicians, and for doctorate programs in Chemistry. Schools often offer two programs - a coursework-based masters and a research-based masters. The coursework masters is offered through completion of a number of graduate level chemistry classes and may require the recipient to complete a research proposal to demonstrate their expertise. The research masters is offered through completion a certain number of hours devoted to academic chemistry research, classes related to the research being performed, and the completion of a thesis consisting of the research completed during the masters and its impact of the research on the field. Christian Education The Master of Arts in Christian Education is a seminary degree primarily designed for those in the field of church ministry. Various specializations include children's ministry and youth ministry, among others. Thus, many children's pastors and youth pastors obtain the degree, while senior pastors usually pursue the Master of Divinity degree. The degree is usually obtained in 2–3 years. City and Regional Planning Master of City and Regional Planning (MCRP) is a professional degree in the study of urban planning. Clinical Medical Science Clinical Medical Science is a professional degree awarded to Physician Assistants. Communication The Department of Communication of the University of Ottawa offers a Master of Arts (MA) in Communication degree with thesis or with research paper. The program focuses on five fields of specialization: media studies; organizational communication; health communication; identity and diversity in communication; government communication. Both teaching and research explore major issues related to new information and communication technologies in media and organizations at the national and international levels.The academic department of Art History & Communication Studies at McGill University offers Master of Arts (M.A.) degrees, which are differentiated either as Interdisciplinary (Thesis/Non-Thesis) or as Noninterdisciplinary (Thesis/Non-Thesis) programs. The duration for a Non-Thesis option is two years of full-time study. The period for a Thesis option may last longer, depending also on the required level of courses and complexity of the thesis. Students who are admitted to the Interdisciplinary Thesis option Communication Studies - Gender and Women's Studies (incl. e.g. psychology and/or other subjects) might have to earn very high research credits at the 700-PhD-level, and they may need to complete their program in the maximum of three years of full-time candidature. The Communication & Media Arts Department at Lancaster Bible College offers a Master of Arts (MA) degree in Strategic Communication Leadership. Computer Science The Master of Science in Computer Science and Master of Science in Information Technology are graduate degrees for information technology professionals and computer engineers. They are generally based on core computer science subjects where knowledge can be used for advanced work especially in the information technology industry. The Bachelor level degree provides a well-balanced foundation in information technology. The Master's degree allows the advancement of core knowledge and an opportunity to specialize in selected technology areas of interest. Community Health and Prevention Research A Master of Science in Community Health and Prevention Research is a graduate degree for students interested in advancing health in communities through evidence based science. The degree is similar to a public health degree with an emphasis on epidemiology, measurement, research, and statistics in the coursework though with a strong applied focus and emphasis on community engagement; theory and applied principles of behavior change; and intervention development, evaluation, and dissemination. Programs may combine in-class instruction, faculty and peer-to-peer mentoring, with community-based internships. The objective is to prepare future health professionals to responsibly and effectively address health challenges faced by diverse communities across the life course. Criminal Justice The Master of Criminal Justice is a professional degree in the study of criminal justice. The program is designed as a terminal degree for professionals in the field of criminal justice or as preparation for doctoral programs. It may also be referred to as a Master of Science in Justice Administration (M.S.J.A.). Cross-Cultural and International Education This master's degree, offered by Bowling Green State University in Bowling Green, Ohio, prepares professional educators to be effective leaders in the internationalization of schools and communities and to be positive facilitators of cross-cultural understanding. The focus of this degree program is to prepare a global educator who is able to: • lead in internationalizing curriculum • foster international educational partnerships • infuse education policy and practice with cross-cultural awareness. Cross-cultural and international education is defined as the examination of education from diverse perspectives in international, transnational, and global contexts. The topics that students address in this program transcend national boundaries. This differs from multicultural education which specifically examines issues within a single nation. The program connects cultural and international understanding with educational theory and practice through a unique combination of courses from several disciplines at BGSU. Students construct the academic basis for their program from select courses in the College of Education and Human Development and other colleges on campus. The students then apply this academic foundation to a practical cross-cultural/ international internship experience. Current students are participating in a variety of internships in formal and non-formal settings, including international sites in China, South Africa, Vietnam and Belize, and domestically with Indigenous students in Alaska and Mexican migrant populations in Ohio. Students complete the MACIE program with a capstone seminar or a master's thesis. Cultural Studies This master's degree is a one or two year degree that allows students to engage the heterogeneous body of theories and practices associated with cultural studies and critical theory in the critical investigation of culture. Cyber Security The Master of Information and Cybersecurity (MICS) is an interdisciplinary degree program that examines computer security technologies as well as human factors in information security, including the economic, legal, behavioral, and ethical impacts of the cybersecurity domain. A Master of Science in Cyber Security is typically seated within the computer science discipline and is focused on the technical aspects of cybersecurity. Other cybersecurity master's degree programs focus on policy and legal aspects of cybersecurity. Data Science Master in Interdisciplinary Data Science and Master of Information and Data Science (MIDS) are professional graduate degrees in Data Science designed to help meet the need for knowledgeable data scientists who can answer important questions with data-backed insights, by drawing upon computer science, social sciences, statistics, management, and law. Dentistry The Master of Science in Dentistry is a post-graduate degree awarded for those with a dental degree (BDS, DMD, DDS, BDent, BChD, etc. ), who have completed a post-graduate level course of study. Digital Media The Master of Digital Media is a professional degree in the study of digital media, which includes entertainment technology, and can be defined as media experiences made possible by the advent of primarily computer-mediated digital technologies (e.g., electronic games and special effects in motion pictures). This is also called the Master of Interactive Technology (MIT) or Master of Entertainment Technology (Carnegie Mellon). Dispute Resolution Dispute Resolution as a master's degree program, a first in Australia, focuses on the wide range of non-adversarial dispute resolution processes. The subject accommodate distinct streams that include commerce, family, community and court-annexed programs. This subject is an introduction to the philosophy, theory and practice of an area of increasing importance in all professions, business and government. Dispute resolution processes are now integrated into the adversarial framework as well as being applied to an ever-widening range of private and public situations. This emerging practice of professional dispute resolution converge within and outside the legal profession. Divinity The Master of Divinity (M.Div.) is the first professional degree in ministry (in the United States and Canada) and is a common academic degree among theological seminaries. It typically takes students three years to complete. Other theology degree titles used are Master of Theology (Th.M. or M.Th. ), Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S. ), Master of Arts in Practical Theology (M.A.P.T. ), Master of Sacred Theology (S.T.M.) and Master of ecclesiastical Philosophy (M.EPh.). Education Master of Education degrees are similar to MA, MS, and MSc, where the subject studied is education. In some states in the United States, teachers can earn teacher licensure with a bachelor's degree, but some states require a master's degree within a set number of years as continuing education. Other education-related master's degrees conferred in the United States are Master of Arts in Teaching (M.A.T. ), Master of Science in Instruction (M.S.I. ), Master of Science in education (M.S.Ed. or M.S.E. ), Master of Arts in education (M.A.Ed. ), Master of Adult Education (M.Ad. Ed. ), and Master of Music Education (M.Mus.Ed.). A Master of Education degree, or M.Ed., is a professional, graduate-level degree geared toward individuals who are seeking to move beyond the classroom into administrative-level positions or other specialized roles. It is generally not a degree leading to teaching at a college level, though it can very well prepare individuals for employment in higher education management and student personnel administration, as well as becoming adjunct college instructors. Many online M.Ed. programs offer a specialization in educational leadership. Over the past few years, however, the opportunity to specialize in educational technology has also become increasingly available. While many M.Ed. graduates seek to become principals and school district administrators, others become reading or technology specialists. The Master of Education degree is sometimes referred to as a practitioner's degree, because of its immediate and practical application to the school environment. A Master of Arts in Education is perhaps the most flexible degree in the field, and often allows an educator to specialize in one of several concentrations. In addition to taking core classes in educational philosophy, child psychology, educational ethics, and education research methods, teachers pursuing this advanced education degree generally specialize in one of several fields. Educational professionals who are looking to remain in the classroom often opt to pursue an online Master of Arts in education with a concentration in either elementary or secondary education. At many universities, a concentration in special education is also available. Individuals who are looking to leave the classroom often pursue concentrations in educational leadership, technology, or counseling. This list is by no means complete, as each university offers its own options for specialization. Overall, the M.A. in Education includes more of the theoretical study of education than most of the other advanced degree options. The Master of Arts in Education also offers an extremely high level of flexibility, and can help to advance careers both inside and outside of the classroom. While the other advanced degree programs tend to be more widely known, the Master of Science in Education can also provide professional educators with the tools needed for success in the classroom and advancement in educational leadership. As the name suggests, this degree program provides ample opportunity for the student to take a more scientific approach to the study of education. Many of those individuals who choose to follow the scientific route concentrate on topics like instructional technology or educational research. In many instances, M.S. Education programs that take a scientific slant tend to include coursework in statistics and educational evaluation and measurement. Educators who pursue the more scientific path generally leave the classroom, and in many instances, the school. They have excellent job prospects in the educational research sector. Many go on to work with school districts, state governments, or private research organizations to assess student performance and suggest policies that will boost student achievement. Others supervise technology initiatives for schools or school districts, work in distance education, or pursue doctoral studies. Other individuals who pursue an MS in Education opt for a less scientific course of study, such as educational leadership, or literacy. In some instances, these programs resemble the previously discussed Master of Education degree, but at other schools, these programs place a much greater focus on the scientific aspects of studying education. In either case, the same opportunities for advancement as a school administrator should be available, regardless of whether one has earned a degree of Master of Science in education, a Master of Arts in education, or a Master of Education. Educational Technology The Association for Educational Communications and Technology (AECT) defines the field as the study and ethical practice of facilitating learning and improving performance by creating, using and managing appropriate technological processes and resources.. Programs typically include courses on instructional design, learning theories, educational media, instructional messaging, related theory, and research methods. Some institutions use the term instructional technology to refer to their programs. Although some experts within the field distinguish between educational and instructional technology, on a practical level, the two are essentially synonymous. Master's in Educational Technology programs are offered in at least one university in nearly every US state, and in many countries outside of the United States, including Australia, Canada, China, Singapore, South Korea, and Turkey. One of the oldest programs in North America is based in the Department of Education at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, which has graduated approximately 2,000 master's degree and over 150 PhD students in its 50 years. Students can study full- or part-time, preparing to use their skills and knowledge to design curricula and programs, integrate technology, advise on educational technology policy, and conduct related research for schools, higher education, workplace learning, and community and informal learning.The University of British Columbia (UBC) in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada offers a part-time program within the Faculty of Education, focusing on curriculum design and technology integration.The one-year professional Masters in Educational Technology and Applied Learning Science (METALS) is an interdisciplinary program offer by Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. It is jointly taught by the Human-Computer Interaction in the School of Computer Science and Psychology in Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences. The program is an outgrowth of the research conducted by the National Science Foundation's Science of Learning Center, LearnLab, in which more than 200 researchers produced over 1600 publications and talks. METALS trains students to design, develop and evaluate evidenced-based programs for learning in settings that range from schools to homes, workplaces to museums, and online to offline learning environments. Students with backgrounds in psychology, education, computer science, design, information technology, or business are encouraged to apply. Electronic Business Technologies The Master in Electronic Business Technologies is an interdisciplinary master's program offered at the University of Ottawa in Ontario, Canada. Engineering The Master of Engineering (Magister in Ingeniaria) degree is awarded to students who have done graduate work at the master's level in the field of engineering. In the United States, engineering candidates are typically awarded MS degrees, although a growing number of schools also offer an MEng (e.g. the University of California, Berkeley). The distinction between the two programs varies between schools, but the MS is largely considered an academic degree, whereas the MEng is a professional degree. In the UK and Canada, candidates are generally awarded MSc, MASc or MEng degrees. In Canada, the Master of Applied Science (MASc) is awarded to master's degree students with a research focus (having completed work leading to a thesis), while an MEng is awarded to master's degree students with a coursework focus and the completion of a research paper. The distinction between MASc and MEng is not definite since some universities grant only an MEng and some universities grant only an MASc, be it either research or coursework-focused. In Francophone universities, the Master's Degree is referred to as a Maîtrise. The Master of Applied Science translates to Maîtrise des sciences appliquées and is abbreviated MScA. The Maîtrise in Canada is not equivalent to the Maîtrise in France, nor is the Baccalauréat. Canadian French-language degree and title nomenclature are consistent to North American custom. The MEng title translates to MIng, though this title cannot be used in one's signature in Québec (nor can BIng), as the title ing. (equivalent of P.Eng. in other provinces) is reserved for members of the provincial board of engineers, the Ordre des ingénieurs du Québec. The Master of Science in Engineering is a post-graduate degree to be differentiated from the Master of Engineering. It requires a thesis and qualifies students holding it to apply for a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Engineering. Environment Environment - Available at Concordia University, Montréal, and Université de Sherbrooke (French). Environmental Design The Master of Urban Planning (MUP), Master of City and Regional Planning (MCRP), Master of Urban and Regional Planning (MURP), Master of Environmental Design (MED) and Master of City Planning (MCP) are professional degrees in the study of urban planning. Environmental Management UC Santa Barbara Master of Land and Water Systems, University of British Columbia Environmental Science Environmental Science offered at University of Toronto Scarborough, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Environmental Studies Environmental Studies Finance The Master of Science in Finance is a common degree in the corporate finance and investment finance world. Finance's answer to accounting's MAcc. Fine Arts The Master of Fine Arts (M.F.A.) is a two to three-year terminal degree in a creative field of study, such as theatre arts, creative writing, filmmaking, or studio art. Forensic Science and Law The Master of Science in Forensic Science and Law is a degree program available at Duquesne University. It combines all applications of Forensic Science with Law and its application and legal use before a court of law. Other Universities offer bachelor's degrees in this field and several other universities have applied for accreditation for their programs from the American Academy of Forensic Science. Forensic Sciences The Master of Forensic Sciences (MFS) is a specialized professional degree designed for law enforcement, lab personnel, attorneys, investigators and other professionals. Forestry A master of forestry degree is offered by Duke University and Yale University. Global Affairs The Master of Science in Global Affairs is a degree program available at New York University. The 42-credit curriculum is designed to help students unravel the complex relationships between nations and key international factors and make sense of world events. Coursework covers subjects ranging from economic globalization and the issues facing developing countries to conflict resolution and international law. The Master of Global Affairs (MGA) is a two-year professional degree offered by the Munk School within the University of Toronto. The interdisciplinary degree aims to equip students with an awareness of global financial systems, global civil society, and global governance to prepare students for strategic thinking and responsible leadership on global issues. The Master's of Arts in Global Governance (MAGG) offered by the Balsillie School of International Affairs designed to be completed in 16 months, consists of two terms of course work, a third term in which students complete a major research paper, followed by a fourth term as an intern working on global governance issues in the public or private sector, a research institute, or NGO. The selection process for the MAGG is highly competitive and only 15-18 students are admitted per year. Health Administration Master of Health Administration (MHA) is a two-year degree similar to an MBA but instead is focused on health care systems rather than businesses in general. Health Science The Master of Health Science is awarded to students who have completed a post-graduate course of study in health sciences or health policy fields, usually associated with the Public Health field. The MHS is often a more focused program for public health professionals, often with non-health professional backgrounds. This degree is abbreviated as MHSc in Canada. New degree programs in the US, include MSHS (Master of Science in Health Sciences) that relate to this same particular program type are also becoming more common as universities and medical schools develop more degree specialties throughout the US. Historic Preservation The Master of Science in Historic Preservation (MSHP) is a graduate degree, often offered through schools and colleges of architecture, which focuses on the theory and practical elements of preserving buildings of historic importance. There are only a few programs in the United States, but all of the programs tend to focus on architectural conservation, design, history/theory, preservation planning, building analysis, and preservation law.The Master of Arts in Historic Preservation provides training in the research, documentation, and preservation of the historic built environment. Typically the MAHP is differentiated from the Master of Historic Preservation MHP by an emphasis on historic research and writing, and is usually housed in history departments. Historic Preservation The Master of Historic Preservation (MHP) is a two to two and a half year degree in the field of historic preservation. The MHP is usually considered a terminal degree, although a few Phd programs exist offering historic preservation as a concentration within another field such as community planning. Commonly MHP programs are housed in history, planning, or architecture departments. Interdisciplinary by nature, MHP programs typically consist of courses in architectural history, history and theory of preservation practice, cultural landscape preservation, historic resource documentation and evaluation, community planning, and rehabilitation philosophy and practice. History The Master of Arts in History provides an opportunity for further study of the world's great personalities, events, nations, trends, periods, conflicts, and markings of progress. Many students who graduate with this degree go on to become teachers, professors, historians, researchers, museum curators, and sometimes lawyers. Human-Computer Interaction The Master of Human-computer interaction is a professional degree that focuses on the training and research around topics related to human-computer interaction (HCI). Human-computer interaction, while touches upon areas of research covered by computer science, psychology, cognitive science, social sciences, design, media and other fields of studies, is often categorized under the department of computer science or information science. And students who pursue their graduate studies in this area usually receive a degree of master of computer science or master of information science. There is a limit amount of institutions that offer a master's degree directly under HCI. The Master of human-computer interaction (MHCI), a program at Carnegie Mellon University offered by the Human-Computer Interaction Institute (HCII), is the first program that is solely focused on professional training for students who wish to pursue a career in human-computer interaction related area. There are similar programs offered by other institution, such as Master of Human-Computer Interaction and Design (MHCI+D) by University of Washington, Master of Science in Human-Computer Interaction (MS in HCI) by Georgia Tech, and Master of Science in HCI by Indiana University, Bloomington. Philosophy In the United States and Canada, a Master of Philosophy or Magister Philosophiae (MPhil) degree is sometimes awarded to ABD (all but dissertation) doctoral candidates who have completed all coursework, passed their written and oral examinations, and met any other special requirements before beginning work on the doctoral dissertation. Such programs generally award the M.A. to students who have completed all coursework and preliminary exams (about two years after the B.A. ), and the M.Phil. after advanced exams (comprehensives) and all language requirements have been met, and a dissertation topic approved (usually a year after the M.A.). In other countries, assuming all requirements are met, the MPhil degree is generally awarded after about one year of full-time study towards a doctorate. The MPhil is considered equivalent to the former French DEA (Diplôme d'études approfondies) and Spanish DEA (Diploma de Estudios Avanzados). Physician Assistant Studies The Master of Physician Assistant Studies is a professional degree providing training in the profession of a physician assistant to practice medicine based on the medical school model. This degree is also sometimes seen as an MS in Physician Assistant Studies (MSPAS), the Master of Physician Assistant Practice (MPAP) Professional Counseling The Masters of Arts in Professional Counseling (MAPC) is a two-year program that prepares individuals for the independent professional practice of psychological counseling, involving the rendering of therapeutic services to individuals and groups experiencing psychological problems and exhibiting distress symptoms. Includes instruction in counseling theory, therapeutic intervention strategies, patient/counselor relationships, testing and assessment methods and procedures, group therapy, marital and family therapy, child and adolescent therapy, supervised counseling practice, ethical standards, and applicable regulations. Professional Studies The Master's of Professional Studies (MPS or MProfStuds) is a terminal interdisciplinary degree and is sometimes used by programs that do not fit into any traditional categories. In some cases it is used as replacement for an MFA for programs with heavy technology focuses like NYU's Interactive Telecommunications Program. Other programs use it for Organizational Studies or interdisciplinary Social Science programs. Professional Writing The Master of Professional Writing (MPW) degree is a professional graduate degree program that prepares candidates for a wide variety of writing-related positions in business, education, publishing, and the arts. Coursework in three concentrations - applied writing, composition and rhetoric, and creative writing - allows students to gain theoretical and practical knowledge in various fields of professional writing. Project Management The Master of Project Management is a terminal professional degree awarded to students who have completed a post-graduate course of study, and is usually associated with construction management, urban planning, or architecture and engineering design management. There are a limited number of universities and schools worldwide to be accredited by the Global Accreditation Center of the Project Management Institute® PMI, they must meet the standards of the leading association for project management professionals. Public Administration The Master of Public Administration (M.P.A. or MPA; MAP in Québec) degree is one of several Master's level professional public affairs degrees that provides training in public policy and project and program implementation (more recently known as public management). MPA programs focus on public administration at the local, state/provincial, national/federal and supranational levels, as well as in the nongovernmental organization (NGO) and nonprofit sectors. In the course of its history the MPA degree has become more interdisciplinary by drawing from fields such as economics, sociology, anthropology, political science, and regional planning in order to equip MPA graduates with skills and knowledge covering a broad range of topics and disciplines relevant to the public sector. A core curriculum of a typical MPA program usually includes courses on microeconomics, public finance, research methods / statistics, policy process and policy analysis, ethics, public management, leadership, planning & GIS, and program evaluation/performance measurement. Depending on their interest, MPA students can focus their studies on a variety of public sector fields such as urban planning, emergency management, transportation, health care (particularly public health), economic development, urban management, community development, education, non-profits, information technology, environmental policy, etc. Public Health The Master of Public Health and Master of Science in Public Health degrees are awarded to students who have completed a post-graduate course of study in Public Health. The MPH is considered a management/leadership degree specific to the fields related to public health while the MSPH is considered an academic degree, with a focus on empirical research methodologies. Public Management The Master of Public Management is offered through Carnegie Mellon University Heinz College. This masters level degree is conferred upon those students who have completed a post-graduate course of study, and is usually associated with broadening the students' understanding of social, political, technological and economic processes, as well as paradigms of organizational and human behavior. Public Policy The Master of Public Policy is a master level professional degree that provides training in policy analysis and program evaluation at public policy schools. Over time, the curriculum of Master of Public Policy and the Master of Public Administration (M.P.A.) degrees have blended and converged, due to the realization that policy analysis and program evaluation could benefit from an understanding of public administration, and vice versa. However, MPP programs still place more emphasis in policy analysis, research and evaluation, while MPA programs place more emphasis on operationalization of public policies and the design of effective programs and projects to achieve public policy goals. Over the years MPP programs have become more interdisciplinary drawing from economics, sociology, anthropology, politics, and regional planning. Depending on the interest, MPP students can concentrate in many policy areas including, but not limited to, urban policy, global policy, social policy, health policy, non-profit management, transportation, economic development, education, information technology, etc. Students interested in pursuing a degree program focused entirely on global public policy can also consider Master of Public Policy and Global Affairs (M.P.P.G.A) programs. Public Service The MPS program provides a multi-disciplinary training that equips you with the knowledge, skills and experience you need for a career within any level of government in Canada.With rapid technological changes, shifting demographics, economic uncertainty and globalization, the Canadian public service needs employees with specific knowledge and ingenuity to ensure resources, organizational capacity and effective communications are in place to meet the challenges ahead. Whether working in policy research, financial management or community development, professionally trained public servants are essential to good government. The Public Service today must address a significant demographic challenge. For the first time, it has more employees over 45 than under, and it is facing the imminent retirement of a generation of valued employees … In this context, how can we ensure that Canada continues to have a strong and effective Public Service to help Canadians meet the important challenges facing the country in the years ahead?The Master of Arts in Public Service (MAPS) degree is a professional graduate degree program which offers specializations in areas of administration of justice, dispute resolution, health care administration, leadership studies, and non-profit studies. Quality Assurance The Master of Science in Quality Assurance (MSQA) is a graduate degree designed for quality management professionals in diverse industries including service, manufacturing, software, government and health care organizations. Resource Management The Masters of Resource Management (M.R.M.) is designed for recent graduates from a range of disciplines, and for individuals with experience in private organizations or public agencies dealing with natural resources and the environment. Relevant disciplines of undergraduate training or experience include fields such as biology, engineering, chemistry, forestry and geology, as well as business administration, economics, geography, planning and a variety of social sciences. The M.R.M. degree provides training for professional careers in private or public organizations and preparation for further training for research and academic careers. Sacred Music The Master of Sacred Music is a graduate degree combining academic studies in theology with applied studies in music. Security Technologies Master of Science in Security Technologies (MSST) is a 32 credit, thesis graduate program for security as it relates to technology, intelligence collection, policy, law, cyber and physical security management, and security methodology. The program is within the College of Science and Engineering at the University of Minnesota. Social Work The Master of Social Work (MSW) is a professional graduate degree preparing students to become professional social workers, typically in either direct practice or community practice. MSW programs require students to complete an extensive field practicum, under mentorship of a senior social worker. MSW programs in the United States are accredited by the Council on Social Work Education. The degree title MSW is not used in the US by all social work schools. The University of Chicago uses A.M. and Columbia University uses M.S. to name a few of the exceptions. Strategic Leadership The Master of Science in Strategic Leadership (MSSL) graduate degree is an Executive Program in Organizational Leadership and Management Development, teaching the skills and knowledge in working effectively with people, organizational systems, and complex information. MSSL objectives embody development of a leadership skill set, strategies for problem solving, and solutions to facilitate and manage change applicable in business and not-for-profit environments. Taxation The Master of Science in Taxation (MST) is a professional graduate degree designed for Certified Public Accountants (CPAs) and other tax professionals. Teaching Coursework and practice leading to a Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) degree is intended to prepare individuals for a teaching career in a specific subject of middle and/or secondary-level curricula (i.e., middle or high school). The MAT differs from the MEd degree in that the course requirements are dominated by classes in the subject area to be taught (e.g., foreign language, math, science, etc.) rather than educational theory; and that the MAT candidate does not already hold a teaching credential whereas the MEd candidate will. The MAT often is the initial teacher education program for those who hold a bachelor's degree in the subject that they intend to teach. Work toward most MAT degrees will, however, necessarily include classes on educational theory in order to meet program and state requirements. Work toward the MAT degree may also include practica (i.e., student teaching). This abbreviation is also sometimes used to refer to a Master's in Theology (see ThM). The Master of Arts in Teaching, or MAT, differs from the M.Ed. and the other Master's degrees in education primarily in that the majority of coursework focuses on the subject to be taught (i.e. history, English, math, biology, etc.) rather than on educational theory. While some online MAT programs offer a more general overview of the foundations of effective teaching, most MAT programs combine the study of widely established ‘best practices’ in the classroom with a focus on teaching within a specific discipline. Either way, the MA in Teaching is truly a teaching degree. Individuals who pursue the Master of Arts in Teaching generally choose to remain in the classroom. An MAT can also provide an educator with the appropriate credentials to become a department chairperson. The online Master of Arts in Teaching can offer educational professionals an increase in earning power along with instruction in the most up-to-date and effective instructional techniques. Theology The Master of Divinity (M.Div.) is the first professional degree in ministry (in the United States and Canada) and is a common academic degree among theological seminaries. It is typically three years in length. Other theology degree titles used are Master of Theology (Th.M. or M.Th. ), Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S. ), Master of Arts in Practical Theology (M.A.P.T. ), and Master of Sacred Theology (S.T.M.). Urban Planning The Master of Urban Planning (MUP), Master of City and Regional Planning (MCRP), Master of Urban and Regional Planning (MURP), Master of Environmental Design (MEDes (planning)) and Master of City Planning (MCP) are professional degrees in the study of urban planning. Urban Studies The degree is primarily focused on urban issues including planning issues. Medical physics deals with the application of the concepts and methods of physics to the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of human diseases with a specific goal of improving human health and well-being. Since 2008, medical physics has been included as a health profession according to International Standard Classification of Occupation of the International Labour Organization.Although medical physics may sometimes also be referred to as biomedical physics, medical biophysics, applied physics in medicine, physics applications in medical science, radiological physics or hospital radio-physics, a medical physicist is specifically a health professional with specialist education and training in the concepts and techniques of applying physics in medicine and competent to practice independently in one or more of the subfields of medical physics. Traditionally, medical physicists are found in the following healthcare specialties: radiation oncology (also known as radiotherapy or radiation therapy), diagnostic and interventional radiology (also known as medical imaging), nuclear medicine, and radiation protection. Medical physics of radiation therapy can involve work such as dosimetry, linac quality assurance, and brachytherapy. Medical physics of diagnostic and interventional radiology involves medical imaging techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound, computed tomography and x-ray. Nuclear medicine will include positron emission tomography and radionuclide therapy. However one can find Medical Physicists in many other areas such as physiological monitoring, audiology, neurology, neurophysiology, cardiology and others. Medical physics departments may be found in institutions such as universities, hospitals, and laboratories. University departments are of two types. The first type are mainly concerned with preparing students for a career as a hospital Medical Physicist and research focuses on improving the practice of the profession. A second type (increasingly called 'biomedical physics') has a much wider scope and may include research in any applications of physics to medicine from the study of biomolecular structure to microscopy and nanomedicine. Mission statement of medical physicists In hospital medical physics departments, the mission statement for medical physicists as adopted by the European Federation of Organisations for Medical Physics (EFOMP) is the following: Medical Physicists will contribute to maintaining and improving the quality, safety and cost-effectiveness of healthcare services through patient-oriented activities requiring expert action, involvement or advice regarding the specification, selection, acceptance testing, commissioning, quality assurance/control and optimised clinical use of medical devices and regarding patient risks and protection from associated physical agents (e.g., x-rays, electromagnetic fields, laser light, radionuclides) including the prevention of unintended or accidental exposures; all activities will be based on current best evidence or own scientific research when the available evidence is not sufficient. The scope includes risks to volunteers in biomedical research, carers and comforters. The scope often includes risks to workers and public particularly when these impact patient risk The term physical agents refers to ionising and non-ionising electromagnetic radiations, static electric and magnetic fields, ultrasound, laser light and any other Physical Agent associated with medical e.g., x-rays in computerised tomography (CT), gamma rays/radionuclides in nuclear medicine, magnetic fields and radio-frequencies in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), ultrasound in ultrasound imaging and Doppler measurements. This mission includes the following 11 key activities: Scientific problem solving service: Comprehensive problem solving service involving recognition of less than optimal performance or optimised use of medical devices, identification and elimination of possible causes or misuse, and confirmation that proposed solutions have restored device performance and use to acceptable status. All activities are to be based on current best scientific evidence or own research when the available evidence is not sufficient. Dosimetry measurements: Measurement of doses had by patients, volunteers in biomedical research, carers, comforters and persons subjected to non-medical imaging exposures (e.g., for legal or employment purposes); selection, calibration and maintenance of dosimetry related instrumentation; independent checking of dose related quantities provided by dose reporting devices (including software devices); measurement of dose related quantities required as inputs to dose reporting or estimating devices (including software). Measurements to be based on current recommended techniques and protocols. Includes dosimetry of all physical agents. Patient safety/risk management (including volunteers in biomedical research, carers, comforters and persons subjected to non-medical imaging exposures. Surveillance of medical devices and evaluation of clinical protocols to ensure the ongoing protection of patients, volunteers in biomedical research, carers, comforters and persons subjected to non-medical imaging exposures from the deleterious effects of physical agents in accordance with the latest published evidence or own research when the available evidence is not sufficient. Includes the development of risk assessment protocols. Occupational and public safety/risk management (when there is an impact on medical exposure or own safety). Surveillance of medical devices and evaluation of clinical protocols with respect to protection of workers and public when impacting the exposure of patients, volunteers in biomedical research, carers, comforters and persons subjected to non-medical imaging exposures or responsibility with respect to own safety. Includes the development of risk assessment protocols in conjunction with other experts involved in occupational / public risks. Clinical medical device management: Specification, selection, acceptance testing, commissioning and quality assurance/ control of medical devices in accordance with the latest published European or International recommendations and the management and supervision of associated programmes. Testing to be based on current recommended techniques and protocols. Clinical involvement: Carrying out, participating in and supervising everyday radiation protection and quality control procedures to ensure ongoing effective and optimised use of medical radiological devices and including patient specific optimization. Development of service quality and cost-effectiveness: Leading the introduction of new medical radiological devices into clinical service, the introduction of new medical physics services and participating in the introduction/development of clinical protocols/techniques whilst giving due attention to economic issues. Expert consultancy: Provision of expert advice to outside clients (e.g., clinics with no in-house medical physics expertise). Education of healthcare professionals (including medical physics trainees: Contributing to quality healthcare professional education through knowledge transfer activities concerning the technical-scientific knowledge, skills and competences supporting the clinically effective, safe, evidence-based and economical use of medical radiological devices. Participation in the education of medical physics students and organisation of medical physics residency programmes. Health technology assessment (HTA): Taking responsibility for the physics component of health technology assessments related to medical radiological devices and /or the medical uses of radioactive substances/sources. Innovation: Developing new or modifying existing devices (including software) and protocols for the solution of hitherto unresolved clinical problems. Medical biophysics and biomedical physics Some education institutions house departments or programs bearing the title medical biophysics or biomedical physics or applied physics in medicine. Generally, these fall into one of two categories: interdisciplinary departments that house biophysics, radiobiology, and medical physics under a single umbrella; and undergraduate programs that prepare students for further study in medical physics, biophysics, or medicine. Most of the scientific concepts in bionanotechnology are derived from other fields. Biochemical principles that are used to understand the material properties of biological systems are central in bionanotechnology because those same principles are to be used to create new technologies. Material properties and applications studied in bionanoscience include mechanical properties (e.g. deformation, adhesion, failure), electrical/electronic (e.g. electromechanical stimulation, capacitors, energy storage/batteries), optical (e.g. absorption, luminescence, photochemistry), thermal (e.g. thermomutability, thermal management), biological (e.g. how cells interact with nanomaterials, molecular flaws/defects, biosensing, biological mechanisms such as mechanosensation), nanoscience of disease (e.g. genetic disease, cancer, organ/tissue failure), as well as computing (e.g. DNA computing) and agriculture (target delivery of pesticides, hormones and fertilizers. Areas of specialty The International Organization for Medical Physics (IOMP) recognizes main areas of medical physics employment and focus. Medical imaging physics Medical imaging physics is also known as diagnostic and interventional radiology physics. Clinical (both in-house and consulting) physicists typically deal with areas of testing, optimization, and quality assurance of diagnostic radiology physics areas such as radiographic X-rays, fluoroscopy, mammography, angiography, and computed tomography, as well as non-ionizing radiation modalities such as ultrasound, and MRI. They may also be engaged with radiation protection issues such as dosimetry (for staff and patients). In addition, many imaging physicists are often also involved with nuclear medicine systems, including single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET). Sometimes, imaging physicists may be engaged in clinical areas, but for research and teaching purposes, such as quantifying intravascular ultrasound as a possible method of imaging a particular vascular object. Radiation therapeutic physics Radiation therapeutic physics is also known as radiotherapy physics or radiation oncologist physics. The majority of medical physicists currently working in the US, Canada, and some western countries are of this group. A radiation therapy physicist typically deals with linear accelerator (Linac) systems and kilovoltage x-ray treatment units on a daily basis, as well as other modalities such as TomoTherapy, gamma knife, Cyberknife, proton therapy, and brachytherapy. The academic and research side of therapeutic physics may encompass fields such as boron neutron capture therapy, sealed source radiotherapy, terahertz radiation, high-intensity focused ultrasound (including lithotripsy), optical radiation lasers, ultraviolet etc. including photodynamic therapy, as well as nuclear medicine including unsealed source radiotherapy, and photomedicine, which is the use of light to treat and diagnose disease. Nuclear medicine physics Nuclear medicine is a branch of medicine that uses radiation to provide information about the functioning of a person's specific organs or to treat disease. The thyroid, bones, heart, liver and many other organs can be easily imaged, and disorders in their function revealed. In some cases radiation sources can be used to treat diseased organs, or tumours. Five Nobel laureates have been intimately involved with the use of radioactive tracers in medicine. Over 10,000 hospitals worldwide use radioisotopes in medicine, and about 90% of the procedures are for diagnosis. The most common radioisotope used in diagnosis is technetium-99m, with some 30 million procedures per year, accounting for 80% of all nuclear medicine procedures worldwide. Health physics Health physics is also known as radiation safety or radiation protection. Health physics is the applied physics of radiation protection for health and health care purposes. It is the science concerned with the recognition, evaluation, and control of health hazards to permit the safe use and application of ionizing radiation. Health physics professionals promote excellence in the science and practice of radiation protection and safety. Background radiation Radiation protection Dosimetry Health physics Radiological protection of patients Non-ionizing Medical Radiation Physics Some aspects of non-ionising radiation physics may be considered under radiation protection or diagnostic imaging physics. Imaging modalities include MRI, optical imaging and ultrasound. Safety considerations include these areas and lasers Lasers and applications in medicine Physiological measurement Physiological measurements have also been used to monitor and measure various physiological parameters. Many physiological measurement techniques are non-invasive and can be used in conjunction with, or as an alternative to, other invasive methods. Measurement methods include electrocardiography Many of these areas may be covered by other specialities, for example medical engineering or vascular science. Healthcare informatics and computational physics Other closely related fields to medical physics include fields which deal with medical data, information technology and computer science for medicine. Information and communication in medicine Medical informatics Image processing, display and visualization Computer-aided diagnosis Picture archiving and communication systems (PACS) Standards: DICOM, ISO, IHE Hospital information systems e-Health Telemedicine Digital operating room Workflow, patient-specific modeling Medicine on the Internet of Things Distant monitoring and telehomecare Areas of research and academic development Non-clinical physicists may or may not focus on the above areas from an academic and research point of view, but their scope of specialization may also encompass lasers and ultraviolet systems (such as photodynamic therapy), fMRI and other methods for functional imaging as well as molecular imaging, electrical impedance tomography, diffuse optical imaging, optical coherence tomography, and dual energy X-ray absorptiometry. Legislative and advisory bodies ICRU: International Commission on Radiation Units and Measurements ICRP: International Commission on Radiological Protection NCRP: National Council on Radiation Protection & Measurements NRC: Nuclear Regulatory Commission FDA: Food and Drug Administration IAEA: International Atomic Energy Agency AMPI: Association of Medical Physicists of India AAPM: American Association of Physicists in Medicine CCPM: Canadian College of Physicists in Medicine EFOMP: European Federation of Organisations for Medical Physics ACPSEM: Australasian College of Physical Scientists and Engineers in Medicine References External links Human Health Campus, The official website of the International Atomic Energy Agency dedicated to Professionals in Radiation Medicine. This site is managed by the Division of Human Health, Department of Nuclear Sciences and Applications Australasian College of Physical Scientists and Engineers in Medicine (ACPSEM) Canadian Organization of Medical Physicist - Organisation canadienne des physiciens médicaux The American Association of Physicists in Medicine Romanian College of Medical Physicists medicalphysicsweb.org from the Institute of Physics AIP Medical Physics portal Institute of Physics & Engineering in Medicine (IPEM) - UK European Federation of Organizations for Medical Physics (EFOMP) International Organization for Medical Physics (IOMP) Amala Institute of Medical Sciences is a private medical college near Amalanagar, in Thrissur city, of Kerala state. It is a Christian minority institution established and administered by the Devamatha Province of the Carmelites of Mary Immaculate (CMI), an indigenous religious congregation founded in 1831. History Amala was established in 1978 as a nonprofit, charitable institution aimed at treatment and management of Cancer in Thrissur. The institution was formally inaugurated on 25 April 1978 by the then President of India, Neelam Sanjiva Reddy. The hospital complex was situated on the slopes of the Vilangan Hills, spreading over a 40-acre (160,000 m2) campus. See also Azeezia Medical College References External links Official Website Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences is a medical college in the Indian state of Karnataka, affiliated to the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Jayanagar, Bangalore. History Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences was established in 1980 by the Vokkaligara Sangha. The Vokkaligara Sangha took a formal decision in 1979 to start a medical college from the year 1980–81 and applied for permission to the registrar, Bangalore University. On 30 November 1980 the Hon'ble Chief Minister Shri. R Gundu Rao laid the foundation stone of the Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences and Hospital in the premises of the Sangha and announced the grant of vacant land in Banashankari to be used for the construction of college building and hostels. Thereafter, the Sangha appointed Dr M Basavaraju, professor of Physiology as the principal on 1 January 1981 and other staff by March 1981 and classes were started regularly from 16 March 1981. Since then 16 March is observed every year as KIMS Day. The Silver Jubilee Celebrations of the institute was held in 2006. A college building to mark the centenary celebrations of the Vokkaligara Sangha and the Silver Jubilee of KIMS has been built at the Banashankari Campus. Courses Undergraduate The college offers the 5-year MBBS course. Admission is through the NATIONAL ELIGIBILITY AND ENTRANCE TEST (NEET-UG) only. Management quota seats are also available . Postgraduate The postgraduate degree course is of three-years duration and the postgraduates diploma course two years. The college offers the following: MD Anatomy Physiology Biochemistry Pharmacology Pathology Microbiology Forensic Medicine Community Medicine Medicine Paediatrics Dermatology Radio Diagnosis Anaesthesiology Psychiatry MS General Surgery O.B.G Ophthalmology E.N.T Orthopaedics Diploma DA (Anaesthesiology) DCP(Pathology) DCH(Paediatrics) DGO (O.B.G) DOMS (Ophthalmology) D.Ortho. (Orthopaedics) D.L.O (E.N.T) DMRD (Radio Diagnosis)These courses are recognised by Medical Council of India (M.C.I) and Government of India. Campus The college has two campuses. The hospital and clinical departments are on the VV Puram campus while the pre-clinical and para-clinical departments are on the Banashankari campus. Transport between the campuses is provided. Facilities Hostels There are two hostels, one for each gender, on the Banashankari campus. Sports The college has a fully equipped health club with a 10 station multi-gym, two treadmills and steppers and a trained instructor. Indoor games like chess, carrom and table tennis are available.The college has three intracollegiate sports fests. They are the KPL (KIMS Premiere League)(cricket), KVL(KIMS VOLLEYBALL LEAGUE) and Dinamani Cup (football). Cultural activities The college day, Atharva, allows the students to exhibit their talent in activities such as music, dance, mad ad, etc. The intercollegiate quiz competition, Uttunga, is conducted by the college. Ranking KIMS has been ranked No. 24 among the 275+ medical colleges in India by The MINT, The Wall Street Journal. References External links Official website Nagaland Institute of Medical Science and Research (NIMSR), popularly known as Kohima Medical College, is a medical college and hospital in Kohima in the Indian state of Nagaland. It is the first Medical College in the Indian state of Nagaland. On 25 April 2023, National Medical Commission has given the Letter of Permission (LoP) for 100 MBBS seats to start the medical college under Nagaland University, Kohima for the Academic Year 2023–2024. History The Central government in february 2014, gave its nod for the creation of a medical College with Central and State government taking 90% and 10% of the expenses respectively. The Central government sanctioned 189 crores rupees for the construction. The foundation for Nagaland Medical College was laid by the Chief Minister of Nagaland Neiphiu Rio in 2014 The sanctioned amount was received in 2015 but construction could not take off due to land issue. In 2018, the land issue was resolved and the land needed for the medical institute was handed over to the government. In September 2023, the institute began classes at full capacity with 100 students. References External links Official sites Nagaland Institute of Medical Science and Research Official Website Medical Science Educator is a peer-reviewed journal that focuses on teaching the sciences that are fundamental to modern medicine and health. Coverage includes basic science education, clinical teaching and the incorporation of modern educational technologies. MSE offers all who teach in healthcare the most current information to succeed in their task by publishing scholarly activities, opinions, and resources in medical science education. MSE provides the readership a better understanding of teaching and learning techniques in order to advance medical science education. It is the official publication of the International Association of Medical Science Educators (IAMSE). References External links International Association of Medical Science Educators (IAMSE) PubMed Journal Info Page Trinity Medical Sciences University is an offshore private medical school with its Basic Science part of the MD program, Pre-Medical program and Masters program located in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines in the Caribbean and Clinical Science part of the MD program in Warner Robins, Georgia, United States. It opened in 2008 as a fully accredited medical facility to respond to a shortage of physicians in the United States and Canada. It has its administrative headquarters in Roswell, Georgia, and it partners with Milton Cato Memorial Hospital located in Kingstown and Northwest Hospital in Baltimore. Programs School of Biomedical Sciences For students who have not attained the four-semester prerequisite courses for entrance to medical school, the school offers undergraduate programs. The Pre-Medical program provides students with 90 credit hours of the basic medical curriculum for those who have not attained applicable credits from foreign universities. Because criteria vary from nation to nation, students who have earned college-level credit previously are recommended to submit those credits for review to confirm their applicability to Trinity's academic requirements. School of Medicine The medical school curriculum is based on the US four-year model, requiring 130 weeks of study. Trinity's program consists of five terms of basic science study, followed by five terms of clinical core and elective clerkships. Students successfully completing the ten terms, which include various NBME subject exams and passing the USMLE Steps 1, 2CK, and 2CS, are awarded a Doctor of Medicine degree.Because Trinity pays an annual fee for the right to collaborate and co-funds a pediatric surgeon for public-sector practice with Milton Cato Memorial Hospital, students are able to begin participation in patient care in the first semester of medical school. Students may also support the health officers at the district clinics in Calliaqua and at various health fairs on the island. Clinical clerkships, taking place in years three and four (terms six through ten), are conducted with Trinity faculty and local staff at our network of affiliated hospitals and medical facilities in Baltimore. Health Science Program Trinity's Masters of Health Sciences is a degree program for students in the medical field. Service Culture Trinity Medical Sciences University has healthcare outreach under the umbrella of the school through student activitiy groups (such as Trinity's AMSA and CaMSA chapters) and reaching out to local children's homes or charity groups on their own. The World Pediatric Project gives high-performing 5th term students an opportunity to assist visiting physicians in the field. Accreditation Trinity Medical Sciences University was chartered and licensed in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines on 11 April 2008 and listed in the FAIMER International Medical Education Directory (IMED), now the World Directory of Medical Schools (WDMS), effective 19 September 2008. By virtue of its listing in the WDMS, students graduating from Trinity are authorized to take part in the United States Medical Licensing Examination three-part examinations. Those who pass the examinations are eligible, according to the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, to register for and participate in the National Resident Matching Program (NRMP). In July 2015, Trinity Medical Sciences University received CAAM-HP accreditation. In September 2016, CAAM-HP of St. Vincent and the Grenadines was recognized by the United States Department of Education's NCFMEA. See also List of medical schools in the Caribbean Medical School International medical graduate References External links Official Website School Blog Bibliography Bosberry-Scott, Wendy (1 October 2010). The John Catt Guide to International Schools 2010/11. Suffolk, England: John Catt Educational Ltd. ISBN 978-1-904724-82-7. Rodriguez, Michael; Williamson, Taylor; Vogus, Abigail; Macgregor-Skinner, Elizabeth; Pena, Donna-Lisa; Wilson, Anneke; Nakhimovsky, Sharon (February 2012). Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Health System and Private Sector Assessment (PDF). USAID Health Systems 20/20 Project. Bethesda, Maryland: ABT Associates, Inc. Retrieved 6 November 2015. The Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences (WCGS), formerly known as the Cornell University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, is a graduate college of Cornell University that was founded in 1952 as an academic partnership between two major medical institutions in New York City: the Weill Cornell Medical College and the Sloan Kettering Institute. Cornell is involved in the Tri-Institutional MD-PhD Program with Rockefeller University and the Sloan Kettering Institute; each of these three institutions is part of a large biomedical center extending along York Avenue between 65th and 72nd Streets on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Programs of study Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences (WCGS) partners with neighboring institutions along York Avenue, also known as the corridor of science in New York City. Such partnerships with Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York-Presbyterian Hospital, the Hospital for Special Surgery and The Rockefeller University offer specialized learning opportunities. WCGS offers a variety of programs at both the Masters and Doctoral levels. As a partnership between the Sloan Kettering Institute and Weill Cornell Medical College, WCGS offers seven PhD programs as well as four distinct Masters programs. Additionally, the school offers two Tri-Institutional PhDs, a Tri-Institutional MD/PhD and the opportunity for students to participate in an Accelerated PhD/MBA program.PhD Programs: Biochemistry and Structural Biology Molecular Biology Cell and Developmental Biology Immunology and Microbial Pathogenesis Pharmacology Neuroscience Physiology Biophysics and Systems BiologyTri-Institutional PhD Programs Chemical Biology Computational Biology and Medicine Tri-I MD / PhD Program See also Tri-Institutional MD-PhD Program Weill Cornell Medical College All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Deoghar (AIIMS Deoghar) is a prestigious medical university and hospital located in Deoghar, Jharkhand, India. It is also one of the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) that started operation in 2019. The Institute operates autonomously under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of Government of India under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojna (PMSSY) and also among the Institutes of National Importance in India. History AIIMS Deoghar was set up as part of the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) initiative, announced by the Government of India in 2003 and officially launched in March 2006, for the purpose of correcting regional imbalances in the availability of affordable/reliable tertiary healthcare services, through setting up AIIMS Delhi-like institutions and upgrading government medical colleges.A proposal for setting an AIIMS in Jharkhand was first made by the local government in June 2016. In August, in response to a request by the union government to come up with several alternatives for the location, the local government announced that the preferred location is in Deoghar, although Ranchi was also considered. On 1 February 2017, in the budget presentation for 2017–2018, Minister of Finance Arun Jaitley officially announced the intent to establish an AIIMS in Jharkhand, as well as one in Gujarat. These were later denoted Phase-VI of PMSSY. A detailed project report was prepared in July and the site in Deoghar was finalised in December. In April 2018 the local government handed over the 236.92 acres (95.88 ha) of land required for establishing the AIIMS, and finally, in May 2018, the union cabinet approved the AIIMS, with a provision of ₹1,103 crore (US$140 million). The foundation stone was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi later that month. The ₹9.02 billion (US$110 million) contract for building the institute was awarded to NBCC in October.The institute became operational with the first batch of 50 MBBS students, which started in September 2019, one of the six AIIMSs to become operational in 2019. Saurabh Varshney was appointed director in March 2020 and N.K. Arora was appointed president in May of that year. A second batch of 62 MBBS students enrolled in 2020. Outpatient department (OPD) services were launched in August 2021. On 12 June 2022, the In-Patient Department (IPD) along with Academic and Administrative Block was inaugurated by Shri Narendra Modi. The entire campus is expected to be completely functional by the end of December 2023. In November 2022, Institute has been permitted to run postgraduate courses with 7 number of seats allocated for the INI-CET January 2023 session. Campus Construction of the permanent campus started in December 2019 and is almost completed with both opd and ipd block functional, the construction is expected to be completed by the end of 2023. The entire campus is expected to be finished in December 2023. The administration along with academic block had already been shifted to its permanent campus. Later, AIIMS Deoghar also started it Bsc.Nursing courses with an annual intake of 62 along with its regular MBBS batch of 125 students and MD/MS courses. Hospital services The 40-room outpatient department was inaugurated by the Minister of Health and Family Welfare, Mansukh Mandaviya, on 24 August 2021, including a night shelter facility for the patients and attendants. Online registration facilities were launched on 3 September 2021. On July 12, 2022, the 250-bed in-patient department (IPD) and operation theatre were opened. The newly built ipd block and administration block were also inaugurated by Shri.Narendra Modi on 12 July 2022. The hospital is expected to be completed by the end of 2023 and will be totally functional with 750 beds ipd and opd facilities. References External links Official website Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences is an Indian government medical college. It is located in Mallasamudra village of Gadag, Karnataka, India. The institution is affiliated with Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences and offers courses for medical, paramedical and nursing students. The College is spread over 54 acres of land, beside Lush greenery Mountains and Windmills in the premises of District Hospital at outskirts of Gadag. This Medical College building covers 51,000 sq. meter of the area where Two Examination halls available each with 250 Seating capacity. The institute is fully equipped with Laboratories, Museums,Amphitheatre and there are 6 Lecture Halls available, 5 lecture halls situated in college each with 180 seating capacity and one in hospital with 200 Seating capacity. There are 302 well educated Teaching Faculty available. This College has separate common rooms for boys and girls each with 160sqm with attached toilet facility. Library The Central Library of the college spreading over 2400sq.m, 5513 books and 28 Indian,12 foreign journals. And has a wide collection of medical literature including Books, Reference Sources, CD, DVDs, Journals, E-Journals, E-books and pamphlets to the faculty and medical students. This library has 600 seating capacity. Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences Ranking Below College Ranking is based on How parents and students Preferred Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences during NEET UG 2021 MCC and state counselling. All India Ranking is 254 Karnataka State Ranking is 22. Affiliated Teaching Hospitals Affiliated Teaching hospitals with the institution are: Government District Teaching Hospital Gadag Dundappa Manvi Maternal and Child Health Care Hospital, K.C. Rani Road, Gadag Urban Health Training Centre, Gandhi Circle, Gadag Primary Health Centre, Hulkoti Primary Health Centre, Nagavi Shirahatti Taluk Hospital, Shirahatti Lakshmeshwar Taluk Hospital, Laxmeshwar UG / PG Courses Offered by the Institute Undergraduate courses The college offers four and a half year M.B.B.S courses with a one-year Compulsory Rotating Medical Internship at the above mentioned Affiliated Teaching hospitals. Undergraduate courses include M.B.B.S, Bachelor of Science in Allied Health Sciences, Bachelor of Science in Nursing and Diploma in Nursing. Postgraduate courses Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences is the only college overseen by the National Board of Examinations to offer a Post-graduate DNB course in surgery in Karnataka. The institute is the only medical college in India to obtain post-graduate seats in its all clinical departments within five years of its inception. Admission is coordinated through PG NEET conducted by DNB, India. Post-graduate courses including MD, MS, DNB, and CPS are offered. Departments Anatomy Physiology Biochemistry Pharmacology Pathology Microbiology Forensic medicine Community Medicine General medicine Pediatric TB and Chest Skin & V D Psychiatry General surgery - The college is presently permitted by the Indian government to run a DNB course in surgery. This is the first post-graduate course to be offered. Orthopedics ENT Ophthalmology OBG Anesthesia Radiology Dentistry Hostel Boys hostel has 90 rooms and girls hostel has 90 rooms with 24 hours of well-maintained drinking & Non Drinking water supply. Recreation facilities, visitor room, Airconditioned and computer with internet facilities are available. Students get food from the hygienic kitchen with comfortable Dining system. Well equipped recreation room and gymnasium for physical workouts for better health maintaining practice, and sports activities and training for sports dreamed students. It has large and spacious TV room for students relaxation with regular vigilance by the anti ragging squad for controlling ragging problems from and for the students. References External links Official website The index case or patient zero is the first documented patient in a disease epidemic within a population, or the first documented patient included in an epidemiological study. It can also refer to the first case of a condition or syndrome (not necessarily contagious) to be described in the medical literature, whether or not the patient is thought to be the first person affected. An index case can achieve the status of a classic case study in the literature, as did Phineas Gage, the first known person to exhibit a definitive personality change as a result of a brain injury. Term The index case may or may not indicate the source of the disease, the possible spread, or which reservoir holds the disease in between outbreaks, but may bring awareness of an emerging outbreak. Earlier cases may or may not be found and are labeled primary or coprimary, secondary, tertiary, etc. The term primary case can only apply to infectious diseases that spread from human to human, and refers to the person who first brings a disease into a group of people. In epidemiology, the term is often used by both scientists and journalists alike to refer to the individual known or believed to have been the first infected or source of the resulting outbreak in a population as the index case, but such would technically refer to the primary case. Origin of patient zero Patient zero was used to refer to the supposed source of HIV outbreak in the United States, flight attendant Gaëtan Dugas in the popular press, but the term's use was based on a misunderstanding (and Dugas was not the index case). In the 1984 study of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), one of the earliest recorded HIV-patients was code-named patient O, which stands for patient out of California. The letter O, however, was interpreted by some readers of the report as the numeral 0. The designation patient zero (for Gaëtan Dugas) was subsequently propagated by the San Francisco Chronicle journalist Randy Shilts in his book And the Band Played On in 1987. William Darrow, behavioral scientist of CDC responsible to figure out why gay men in Los Angeles were dying of a strange illness, said: That's correct. I never labeled him Patient Zero.The term has been expanded into general usage to refer to an individual identified as the first carrier of a communicable disease in a population (the primary case) or pandemics, or the first incident in the onset of a catastrophic trend. In some cases, a known or suspected patient zero may be informally referred to as an index case for the purpose of a scientific study, such as the two-year-old boy in a remote village in Guinea who was thought to be the source of the largest Ebola virus outbreak in history, or an unknown one, such as the mysterious patient zero of COVID-19.In genetics, the index case is the case of the original patient (i.e. propositus or proband) that stimulates investigation of other members of the family to discover a possible genetic factor.The term can also be used in non-medical fields to describe the first individual affected by something negative that since propagated to others, such as the first user on a network infected by malware. Examples Gaëtan Dugas In the early years of the AIDS epidemic, a patient zero transmission scenario was compiled by William Darrow and colleagues at the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). This epidemiological study showed how patient zero had infected multiple partners with HIV, and they, in turn, transmitted it to others causing rapid spread of the virus to locations all over the world (Auerbach et al., 1984). The CDC identified Gaëtan Dugas as a carrier of the virus from Europe to the United States, who spread it to other men he had sexual contact with at gay bathhouses.Journalist Randy Shilts subsequently wrote about patient zero, based on Darrow's findings, in his 1987 book And the Band Played On, which identified patient zero as being Gaëtan Dugas. Dugas was a flight attendant who was sexually promiscuous in several North American cities, according to Shilts' book. He was vilified for several years as a mass spreader of HIV, and was seen as the original source of the HIV epidemic among homosexual men. Four years later, Darrow repudiated the study's methodology and how Shilts had represented its conclusions.A 2007 study by Michael Worobey and Arthur Pitchenik published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America claimed that, based on the results of genetic analysis, current North American strains of HIV probably moved from Africa to Haiti before entering the United States around 1969, probably through a single immigrant. However, a teenager named Robert Rayford died in St. Louis, Missouri, possibly of complications from AIDS in 1969, having most likely become infected with the virus before 1966. This would imply that there were prior carriers of HIV-strains in North America.The phrase patient zero is now used in the media to refer to the primary case for infectious disease outbreaks, as well as for computer virus outbreaks, and more broadly, as the source of ideas or actions that have far-reaching consequences.David Heymann, professor of Infectious Disease Epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, and formerly with the World Health Organization (WHO), has questioned the importance of finding patient zero, stating, Finding patient zero may be important in some instances, but only if they are still alive and spreading the disease; and more often than not, especially in large disease outbreaks, they're not. Others Mary Mallon (Typhoid Mary) was an index case of a typhoid outbreak in the early 1900s. An apparently healthy carrier, she infected 47 people while working as a cook. She eventually was isolated to prevent her from spreading the disease to others. The first recorded victim of Ebola was a 44-year-old schoolteacher named Mabalo Lokela, who died on 8 September 1976, 14 days after symptom onset. 64-year-old Liu Jianlun, a Guangdong doctor, transmitted SARS internationally by infecting other super-spreaders during a stay in the Hong Kong Metropole Hotel in 2003. A baby in the Lewis House at 40 Broad Street, named Frances Lewis, is considered the index patient in the 1854 cholera outbreak in the Soho neighborhood of London. (The Ghost Map, Steven Johnson, 2005.) Édgar Enrique Hernández may be patient zero of the 2009 flu pandemic. He recovered, and a bronze statue has been erected in his honor. Maria Adela Gutierrez, who contracted the virus about the same time as Hernández, became the first officially confirmed fatality. One-year-old Emile Ouamouno is believed to be patient zero in the 2014 Ebola epidemic in Guinea and West Africa. 51-year-old Jesus Lujan was the index case of the 1924 Los Angeles pneumonic plague outbreak which killed 33. As for the COVID-19 pandemic, there are many known patient zeros across the world known for different symptoms and stories. Out of Los Angeles, patient zero Gregg Garfield spent 64 days in the hospital, including 30 days of coma-state after contracting the virus on a ski trip. Doctors said he had a 1% chance to live. He survived, but had fingers and toes amputated. Another patient zero of the COVID-19 pandemic includes an elderly man who was diagnosed on 1 December 2019, someone who had no contact with the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market. Three other people experienced symptoms in the following days who also did not have contact with the Market. Non-medical usage The term is used to identify the first computer or user to be infected with malware on a network, which then infected other systems.Monica Lewinsky has described herself as the patient zero of online harassment, meaning that she was the first person to receive widespread public harassment via the internet. See also Proband – person who undergoes an examination or is the subject of a medical genetics studyPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback Misconceptions about HIV/AIDS – Misinformation about the HIV/AIDS and its spread Scapegoating References External links Mapping the Spread of Viruses / Contagions via Contact Tracing. orgnet.com. Orgnet. Retrieved 2010-11-03. Letter to the New York Review of Books (vol. 35, number 19, December 8, 1988) by Dr. Andrew Moss, Dept. of Epidemiology and International Health, San Francisco, regarding the “patient zero” myth. Patient Zero - Updated. Radiolab. Season 13, Episode 3. Shiga University of Medical Science (滋賀医科大学, Shiga Ika Daigaku) is a national university in Ōtsu, Shiga, Japan, founded in 1974. Notable faculty Emi Nishimura Katsuo Nishiyama, professor emeritus Masahito Hitosugi Nick Barua See also List of medical schools References External links Official website All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Madurai (AIIMS Madurai) is an Public hospital and Medical school it located at Thoppur near Madurai, Tamil Nadu, India. AIIMS Madurai was Announced in 2015 and the institute established in 2021. The yearly MBBS intake is 50 by the AIIMS Madurai-run medical college and selection is done through NEET(UG). History The AIIMS was officially announced on 28 February 2015, in the budget speech for 2015–16, where the Minister of Finance Arun Jaitley announced five more AIIMS, in Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Assam and Tamil Nadu and an AIIMS-like institute in Bihar. Tamil Nadu had proposed five sites to set up an AIIMS. Besides Thoppur, Sengipatti (Thanjavur), Pudukottai town, Chengalpattu (Kanchipuram) and Perundurai (Erode) were considered. In 2018, the union cabinet gave an official approval for the location, on a 222-acre lot in the Thoppur, near Madurai.By January 2019, the boundary wall of AIIMS Madurai campus was completed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone of AIIMS Madurai in January 2019. The state government handed over the land to the Government of India in February 2020. In March 2021, the funding agency, Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), extended assistance. The loan agreement was signed in February 2022. The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) informed Minister for Health and Family Welfare of Tamil Nadu Ma. Subramanian in February 2023 that the construction of AIIMS Madurai would begin by the end of 2024 and be completed by 2028. Healthcare Medical facilities The AIIMS Madurai will have 15-20 super specialty departments. Hospital The hospital will have around 750 beds. As per the current operational AIIMS data, it is expected that the hospital will cater to around 1500 OPD patients per day and around 1000 IPD patients per month. Academics Admission Like all other AIIMS the institute select students for MBBS course through NEET(UG) annually. Medical College The institution runs a medical college within the campus. The medical college has 50 UG (MBBS) seats. As the construction of the campus is not completed, classes of the first batch were taken at the Ramanathapuram Medical College. The college started with 50 students in April 2022, from the academic session 2021–2022. Medical microbiology, the large subset of microbiology that is applied to medicine, is a branch of medical science concerned with the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases. In addition, this field of science studies various clinical applications of microbes for the improvement of health. There are four kinds of microorganisms that cause infectious disease: bacteria, fungi, parasites and viruses, and one type of infectious protein called prion. A medical microbiologist studies the characteristics of pathogens, their modes of transmission, mechanisms of infection and growth. The academic qualification as a clinical/Medical Microbiologist in a hospital or medical research centre generally requires a Bachelors degree while in some countries a Masters in Microbiology along with Ph.D. in any of the life-sciences (Biochem, Micro, Biotech, Genetics, etc.). Medical microbiologists often serve as consultants for physicians, providing identification of pathogens and suggesting treatment options. Using this information, a treatment can be devised. Other tasks may include the identification of potential health risks to the community or monitoring the evolution of potentially virulent or resistant strains of microbes, educating the community and assisting in the design of health practices. They may also assist in preventing or controlling epidemics and outbreaks of disease. Not all medical microbiologists study microbial pathology; some study common, non-pathogenic species to determine whether their properties can be used to develop antibiotics or other treatment methods. Epidemiology, the study of the patterns, causes, and effects of health and disease conditions in populations, is an important part of medical microbiology, although the clinical aspect of the field primarily focuses on the presence and growth of microbial infections in individuals, their effects on the human body, and the methods of treating those infections. In this respect the entire field, as an applied science, can be conceptually subdivided into academic and clinical sub-specialties, although in reality there is a fluid continuum between public health microbiology and clinical microbiology, just as the state of the art in clinical laboratories depends on continual improvements in academic medicine and research laboratories. History In 1676, Anton van Leeuwenhoek observed bacteria and other microorganisms, using a single-lens microscope of his own design.In 1796, Edward Jenner developed a method using cowpox to successfully immunize a child against smallpox. The same principles are used for developing vaccines today.Following on from this, in 1857 Louis Pasteur also designed vaccines against several diseases such as anthrax, fowl cholera and rabies as well as pasteurization for food preservation.In 1867 Joseph Lister is considered to be the father of antiseptic surgery. By sterilizing the instruments with diluted carbolic acid and using it to clean wounds, post-operative infections were reduced, making surgery safer for patients.In the years between 1876 and 1884 Robert Koch provided much insight into infectious diseases. He was one of the first scientists to focus on the isolation of bacteria in pure culture. This gave rise to the germ theory, a certain microorganism being responsible for a certain disease. He developed a series of criteria around this that have become known as the Koch's postulates.A major milestone in medical microbiology is the Gram stain. In 1884 Hans Christian Gram developed the method of staining bacteria to make them more visible and differentiated under a microscope. This technique is widely used today.In 1910 Paul Ehrlich tested multiple combinations of arsenic based chemicals on infected rabbits with syphilis. Ehrlich then found that arsphenamine was found effective against syphilis spirochetes. The arsphenamines was then made available in 1910, known as Salvarsan.In 1929 Alexander Fleming developed one of the most commonly used antibiotic substances both at the time and now: penicillin.In 1939 Gerhard Domagk found Prontosil red protected mice from pathogenic streptococci and staphylococci without toxicity. Domagk received the Nobel Prize in physiology, or medicine, for the discovery of the sulfa drug.DNA sequencing, a method developed by Walter Gilbert and Frederick Sanger in 1977, caused a rapid change the development of vaccines, medical treatments and diagnostic methods. Some of these include synthetic insulin which was produced in 1979 using recombinant DNA and the first genetically engineered vaccine was created in 1986 for hepatitis B. In 1995 a team at The Institute for Genomic Research sequenced the first bacterial genome; Haemophilus influenzae. A few months later, the first eukaryotic genome was completed. This would prove invaluable for diagnostic techniques.In 2007, a team at the Danish food company Danisco, were able to identify the purpose of the CRIPR-Cas systems as adaptive immunity to phages. The system was then quickly found to be able to help in genome editing through its ability to generate double strand breaks. A patient with sickle cell disease was the first person to be treated for a genetic disorder with CRISPR in July 2019. Commonly treated infectious diseases Bacterial Streptococcal pharyngitis Chlamydia Typhoid fever TuberculosisViral Rotavirus Hepatitis C Human papillomavirus (HPV)Parasitic Malaria Giardia lamblia Toxoplasma gondiiFungal Candida Histoplasmosis Dandruff Causes and transmission of infectious diseases Infections may be caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi, and parasites. The pathogen that causes the disease may be exogenous (acquired from an external source; environmental, animal or other people, e.g. Influenza) or endogenous (from normal flora e.g. Candidiasis).The site at which a microbe enters the body is referred to as the portal of entry. These include the respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract, genitourinary tract, skin, and mucous membranes. The portal of entry for a specific microbe is normally dependent on how it travels from its natural habitat to the host.There are various ways in which disease can be transmitted between individuals. These include: Direct contact - Touching an infected host, including sexual contact Indirect contact - Touching a contaminated surface Droplet contact - Coughing or sneezing Fecal–oral route - Ingesting contaminated food or water sources Airborne transmission - Pathogen carrying spores Vector transmission - An organism that does not cause disease itself but transmits infection by conveying pathogens from one host to another Fomite transmission - An inanimate object or substance capable of carrying infectious germs or parasites Environmental - Hospital-acquired infection (Nosocomial infections)Like other pathogens, viruses use these methods of transmission to enter the body, but viruses differ in that they must also enter into the host's actual cells. Once the virus has gained access to the host's cells, the virus' genetic material (RNA or DNA) must be introduced to the cell. Replication between viruses is greatly varied and depends on the type of genes involved in them. Most DNA viruses assemble in the nucleus while most RNA viruses develop solely in cytoplasm.The mechanisms for infection, proliferation, and persistence of a virus in cells of the host are crucial for its survival. For example, some diseases such as measles employ a strategy whereby it must spread to a series of hosts. In these forms of viral infection, the illness is often treated by the body's own immune response, and therefore the virus is required to disperse to new hosts before it is destroyed by immunological resistance or host death. In contrast, some infectious agents such as the Feline leukemia virus, are able to withstand immune responses and are capable of achieving long-term residence within an individual host, whilst also retaining the ability to spread into successive hosts. Diagnostic tests Identification of an infectious agent for a minor illness can be as simple as clinical presentation; such as gastrointestinal disease and skin infections. In order to make an educated estimate as to which microbe could be causing the disease, epidemiological factors need to be considered; such as the patient's likelihood of exposure to the suspected organism and the presence and prevalence of a microbial strain in a community. Diagnosis of infectious disease is nearly always initiated by consulting the patient's medical history and conducting a physical examination. More detailed identification techniques involve microbial culture, microscopy, biochemical tests and genotyping. Other less common techniques (such as X-rays, CAT scans, PET scans or NMR) are used to produce images of internal abnormalities resulting from the growth of an infectious agent. Microbial culture Microbiological culture is the primary method used for isolating infectious disease for study in the laboratory. Tissue or fluid samples are tested for the presence of a specific pathogen, which is determined by growth in a selective or differential medium. The 3 main types of media used for testing are: Solid culture: A solid surface is created using a mixture of nutrients, salts and agar. A single microbe on an agar plate can then grow into colonies (clones where cells are identical to each other) containing thousands of cells. These are primarily used to culture bacteria and fungi. Liquid culture: Cells are grown inside a liquid media. Microbial growth is determined by the time taken for the liquid to form a colloidal suspension. This technique is used for diagnosing parasites and detecting mycobacteria. Cell culture: Human or animal cell cultures are infected with the microbe of interest. These cultures are then observed to determine the effect the microbe has on the cells. This technique is used for identifying viruses. Microscopy Culture techniques will often use a microscopic examination to help in the identification of the microbe. Instruments such as compound light microscopes can be used to assess critical aspects of the organism. This can be performed immediately after the sample is taken from the patient and is used in conjunction with biochemical staining techniques, allowing for resolution of cellular features. Electron microscopes and fluorescence microscopes are also used for observing microbes in greater detail for research. The two main types of electron microscopy are scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. Transmission electron microscopy passes electrons through a thin cross-section of the cell of interest, and it then redirects the electrons onto a fluorescent screen. This method is useful for looking at the inside of cells, and the structures within, especially cell walls and membranes. Scanning electron microscopy reads the electrons that are reflected off the surface of the cells. A 3-dimensional image is then made which shows the size and exterior structure of the cells. Both techniques help give more detailed information about the structure of microbes. This makes it useful in many medical fields, such as diagnostics and biopsies of many body parts, hygiene, and virology. They provide critical information about the structure of pathogens, which allow physicians to treat them with more knowledge. Biochemical tests Fast and relatively simple biochemical tests can be used to identify infectious agents. For bacterial identification, the use of metabolic or enzymatic characteristics are common due to their ability to ferment carbohydrates in patterns characteristic of their genus and species. Acids, alcohols and gases are usually detected in these tests when bacteria are grown in selective liquid or solid media, as mentioned above. In order to perform these tests en masse, automated machines are used. These machines perform multiple biochemical tests simultaneously, using cards with several wells containing different dehydrated chemicals. The microbe of interest will react with each chemical in a specific way, aiding in its identification. Serological methods are highly sensitive, specific and often extremely rapid laboratory tests used to identify different types of microorganisms. The tests are based upon the ability of an antibody to bind specifically to an antigen. The antigen (usually a protein or carbohydrate made by an infectious agent) is bound by the antibody, allowing this type of test to be used for organisms other than bacteria. This binding then sets off a chain of events that can be easily and definitively observed, depending on the test. More complex serological techniques are known as immunoassays. Using a similar basis as described above, immunoassays can detect or measure antigens from either infectious agents or the proteins generated by an infected host in response to the infection. Polymerase chain reaction Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays are the most commonly used molecular technique to detect and study microbes. As compared to other methods, sequencing and analysis is definitive, reliable, accurate, and fast. Today, quantitative PCR is the primary technique used, as this method provides faster data compared to a standard PCR assay. For instance, traditional PCR techniques require the use of gel electrophoresis to visualize amplified DNA molecules after the reaction has finished. quantitative PCR does not require this, as the detection system uses fluorescence and probes to detect the DNA molecules as they are being amplified. In addition to this, quantitative PCR also removes the risk of contamination that can occur during standard PCR procedures (carrying over PCR product into subsequent PCRs). Another advantage of using PCR to detect and study microbes is that the DNA sequences of newly discovered infectious microbes or strains can be compared to those already listed in databases, which in turn helps to increase understanding of which organism is causing the infectious disease and thus what possible methods of treatment could be used. This technique is the current standard for detecting viral infections such as AIDS and hepatitis. Treatments Once an infection has been diagnosed and identified, suitable treatment options must be assessed by the physician and consulting medical microbiologists. Some infections can be dealt with by the body's own immune system, but more serious infections are treated with antimicrobial drugs. Bacterial infections are treated with antibacterials (often called antibiotics) whereas fungal and viral infections are treated with antifungals and antivirals respectively. A broad class of drugs known as antiparasitics are used to treat parasitic diseases. Medical microbiologists often make treatment recommendations to the patient's physician based on the strain of microbe and its antibiotic resistances, the site of infection, the potential toxicity of antimicrobial drugs and any drug allergies the patient has. In addition to drugs being specific to a certain kind of organism (bacteria, fungi, etc. ), some drugs are specific to a certain genus or species of organism, and will not work on other organisms. Because of this specificity, medical microbiologists must consider the effectiveness of certain antimicrobial drugs when making recommendations. Additionally, strains of an organism may be resistant to a certain drug or class of drug, even when it is typically effective against the species. These strains, termed resistant strains, present a serious public health concern of growing importance to the medical industry as the spread of antibiotic resistance worsens. Antimicrobial resistance is an increasingly problematic issue that leads to millions of deaths every year.Whilst drug resistance typically involves microbes chemically inactivating an antimicrobial drug or a cell mechanically stopping the uptake of a drug, another form of drug resistance can arise from the formation of biofilms. Some bacteria are able to form biofilms by adhering to surfaces on implanted devices such as catheters and prostheses and creating an extracellular matrix for other cells to adhere to. This provides them with a stable environment from which the bacteria can disperse and infect other parts of the host. Additionally, the extracellular matrix and dense outer layer of bacterial cells can protect the inner bacteria cells from antimicrobial drugs.Phage therapy is a technique that was discovered before antibiotics, but fell to the wayside as antibiotics became predominate. It is now being considered as a potential solution to increasing antimicrobial resistance. Bacteriophages, viruses that only infect bacteria, can specifically target the bacteria of interest and inject their genome. This process makes the bacteria halt its own production to make more phages, and this continues until the bacteria lyses itself and releases the phages into the surrounding environment. Phage therapy does not kill microbiota since it is specific, and it can help those with antibiotic allergies. Some drawbacks are that it is a time-intensive process since the specific bacterium needs to be identified. It also does not currently have the body of research supporting its effects and safety that antibiotics do. Bacteria can also eventually become resistant, through systems like CRISPR/Cas9 system. Many clinical trials have been promising though, showing that it could potentially help with the antimicrobial resistance problem. It can also be used in conjunction with antibiotics for a cumulative effect.Medical microbiology is not only about diagnosing and treating disease, it also involves the study of beneficial microbes. Microbes have been shown to be helpful in combating infectious disease and promoting health. Treatments can be developed from microbes, as demonstrated by Alexander Fleming's discovery of penicillin as well as the development of new antibiotics from the bacterial genus Streptomyces among many others. Not only are microorganisms a source of antibiotics but some may also act as probiotics to provide health benefits to the host, such as providing better gastrointestinal health or inhibiting pathogens. References External links Medical Microbiology Gambat Institute of Medical Sciences is a medical college located in Gambat, Khairpur District, Sindh, Pakistan. It was established in 2012 and is affiliated with the Shaheed Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto Medical University in Larkana, Sindh. The college offers undergraduate programs in medicine and surgery, as well as postgraduate programs in various specialties, including internal medicine, pediatrics, and obstetrics and gynecology.GIMS has reached significant accomplishments, including the successful completion of its inaugural bone marrow transplant in the year 2021. All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Raebareli (AIIMS Raebareli) is a medical research public university and hospital based in Raebareli, Uttar Pradesh, India. One of the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), It was established in 2013. History An AIIMS in Raebareli was cleared in 2009 as Phase-II of the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) initiative. Following the approval of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Amendment) Act, 2012 the institute was officially established via a Gazette notification in 2013. In 2018 outpatient department (OPD) services became operational. The institute has March 2020 as target day of completion. It operates under the mentorship of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) with the director Prof. Jagat Ram. Academics It started operation with the first batch of 50 MBBS students in 2019, one of the six AIIMSs to become operational in 2019. Arvind Rajwanshi was appointed executive director in March 2020. Campus AIIMS Raebareli's main campus is located in Munshiganj, Dalmau Road, Raebareli. The main campus is spread into different locations containing the OPD block, main hospital block, medical college, administrative wing, hostels, faculty and staff quarters. AIIMS Raebareli's Residential complex, staff quarters, hostels, mess building, hospital, medical college etc. construction was completed as of March 2021. See also AIIMS Gorakhpur National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Raebareli References External links Official website PAMO University of Medical Sciences is a private medical university located in Port Harcourt, Nigeria. The university was established in 2017 as the first private medical university in Nigeria. PAMO University of Medical Sciences was founded by the former governor of Rivers State, Dr Sir Peter Odili. In 2017, the university appointed Former Nigerian Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar, as its Chairman of the Governing Council and Board of Trustees. Unlike modern medicine, which employs the scientific method to test plausible therapies by way of responsible and ethical clinical trials, producing repeatable evidence of either effect or of no effect, alternative therapies reside outside of medical science and do not originate from using the scientific method, but instead rely on testimonials, anecdotes, religion, tradition, superstition, belief in supernatural energies, pseudoscience, errors in reasoning, propaganda, fraud, or other unscientific sources. Frequently used terms for relevant practices are New Age medicine, pseudo-medicine, unorthodox medicine, holistic medicine, fringe medicine, and unconventional medicine, with little distinction from quackery. Some alternative practices are based on theories that contradict the established science of how the human body works; others resort to the supernatural or superstitious to explain their effect or lack thereof. In others, the practice has plausibility but lacks a positive risk–benefit outcome probability. Research into alternative therapies often fails to follow proper research protocols (such as placebo-controlled trials, blind experiments and calculation of prior probability), providing invalid results. History has shown that if a method is proven to work, it eventually ceases to be alternative and becomes mainstream medicine. Much of the perceived effect of an alternative practice arises from a belief that it will be effective, the placebo effect, or from the treated condition resolving on its own (the natural course of disease). This is further exacerbated by the tendency to turn to alternative therapies upon the failure of medicine, at which point the condition will be at its worst and most likely to spontaneously improve. In the absence of this bias, especially for diseases that are not expected to get better by themselves such as cancer or HIV infection, multiple studies have shown significantly worse outcomes if patients turn to alternative therapies. While this may be because these patients avoid effective treatment, some alternative therapies are actively harmful (e.g. cyanide poisoning from amygdalin, or the intentional ingestion of hydrogen peroxide) or actively interfere with effective treatments. The alternative medicine sector is a highly profitable industry with a strong lobby, and faces far less regulation over the use and marketing of unproven treatments. Complementary medicine (CM), complementary and alternative medicine (CAM), integrated medicine or integrative medicine (IM), and holistic medicine attempt to combine alternative practices with those of mainstream medicine. Traditional medicine practices become alternative when used outside their original settings and without proper scientific explanation and evidence. Alternative methods are often marketed as more natural or holistic than methods offered by medical science, that is sometimes derogatorily called Big Pharma by supporters of alternative medicine. Billions of dollars have been spent studying alternative medicine, with few or no positive results and many methods thoroughly disproven. Definitions and terminology The terms alternative medicine, complementary medicine, integrative medicine, holistic medicine, natural medicine, unorthodox medicine, fringe medicine, unconventional medicine, and new age medicine are used interchangeably as having the same meaning and are almost synonymous in most contexts. Terminology has shifted over time, reflecting the preferred branding of practitioners. For example, the United States National Institutes of Health department studying alternative medicine, currently named the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH), was established as the Office of Alternative Medicine (OAM) and was renamed the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) before obtaining its current name. Therapies are often framed as natural or holistic, implicitly and intentionally suggesting that conventional medicine is artificial and narrow in scope.The meaning of the term alternative in the expression alternative medicine, is not that it is an effective alternative to medical science (though some alternative medicine promoters may use the loose terminology to give the appearance of effectiveness). Loose terminology may also be used to suggest meaning that a dichotomy exists when it does not (e.g., the use of the expressions Western medicine and Eastern medicine to suggest that the difference is a cultural difference between the Asian east and the European west, rather than that the difference is between evidence-based medicine and treatments that do not work). Alternative medicine Alternative medicine is defined loosely as a set of products, practices, and theories that are believed or perceived by their users to have the healing effects of medicine, but whose effectiveness has not been established using scientific methods, or whose theory and practice is not part of biomedicine, or whose theories or practices are directly contradicted by scientific evidence or scientific principles used in biomedicine. Biomedicine or medicine is that part of medical science that applies principles of biology, physiology, molecular biology, biophysics, and other natural sciences to clinical practice, using scientific methods to establish the effectiveness of that practice. Unlike medicine, an alternative product or practice does not originate from using scientific methods, but may instead be based on hearsay, religion, tradition, superstition, belief in supernatural energies, pseudoscience, errors in reasoning, propaganda, fraud, or other unscientific sources.Some other definitions seek to specify alternative medicine in terms of its social and political marginality to mainstream healthcare. This can refer to the lack of support that alternative therapies receive from medical scientists regarding access to research funding, sympathetic coverage in the medical press, or inclusion in the standard medical curriculum. For example, a widely used definition devised by the US NCCIH calls it a group of diverse medical and health care systems, practices, and products that are not generally considered part of conventional medicine. However, these descriptive definitions are inadequate in the present-day when some conventional doctors offer alternative medical treatments and introductory courses or modules can be offered as part of standard undergraduate medical training; alternative medicine is taught in more than half of US medical schools and US health insurers are increasingly willing to provide reimbursement for alternative therapies. Complementary or integrative medicine Complementary medicine (CM) or integrative medicine (IM) is when alternative medicine is used together with mainstream functional medical treatment in a belief that it improves the effect of treatments. For example, acupuncture (piercing the body with needles to influence the flow of a supernatural energy) might be believed to increase the effectiveness or complement science-based medicine when used at the same time. Significant drug interactions caused by alternative therapies may make treatments less effective, notably in cancer therapy.Several medical organizations differentiate between complementary and alternative medicine including the UK National Health Service (NHS), Cancer Research UK, and the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the latter of which states that Complementary medicine is used in addition to standard treatments whereas Alternative medicine is used instead of standard treatments.Complementary and integrative interventions are used to improve fatigue in adult cancer patients.David Gorski has described integrative medicine as an attempt to bring pseudoscience into academic science-based medicine with skeptics such as Gorski and David Colquhoun referring to this with the pejorative term quackademia. Robert Todd Carroll described Integrative medicine as a synonym for 'alternative' medicine that, at its worst, integrates sense with nonsense. At its best, integrative medicine supports both consensus treatments of science-based medicine and treatments that the science, while promising perhaps, does not justify Rose Shapiro has criticized the field of alternative medicine for rebranding the same practices as integrative medicine.CAM is an abbreviation of the phrase complementary and alternative medicine. The 2019 World Health Organization (WHO) Global Report on Traditional and Complementary Medicine states that the terms complementary and alternative medicine refer to a broad set of health care practices that are not part of that country's own traditional or conventional medicine and are not fully integrated into the dominant health care system. They are used interchangeably with traditional medicine in some countries.The Integrative Medicine Exam by the American Board of Physician Specialties includes the following subjects: Manual Therapies, Biofield Therapies, Acupuncture, Movement Therapies, Expressive Arts, Traditional Chinese Medicine, Ayurveda, Indigenous Medical Systems, Homeopathic Medicine, Naturopathic Medicine, Osteopathic Medicine, Chiropractic, and Functional Medicine. Other terms Traditional medicine (TM) refers to certain practices within a culture which have existed since before the advent of medical science, Many TM practices are based on holistic approaches to disease and health, versus the scientific evidence-based methods in conventional medicine. The 2019 WHO report defines traditional medicine as the sum total of the knowledge, skill and practices based on the theories, beliefs and experiences indigenous to different cultures, whether explicable or not, used in the maintenance of health as well as in the prevention, diagnosis, improvement or treatment of physical and mental illness. When used outside the original setting and in the absence of scientific evidence, TM practices are typically referred to as alternative medicine.Holistic medicine is another rebranding of alternative medicine. In this case, the words balance and holism are often used alongside complementary or integrative, claiming to take into fuller account the whole person, in contrast to the supposed reductionism of medicine. Challenges in defining alternative medicine Prominent members of the science and biomedical science community say that it is not meaningful to define an alternative medicine that is separate from a conventional medicine because the expressions conventional medicine, alternative medicine, complementary medicine, integrative medicine, and holistic medicine do not refer to any medicine at all. Others say that alternative medicine cannot be precisely defined because of the diversity of theories and practices it includes, and because the boundaries between alternative and conventional medicine overlap, are porous, and change. Healthcare practices categorized as alternative may differ in their historical origin, theoretical basis, diagnostic technique, therapeutic practice and in their relationship to the medical mainstream. Under a definition of alternative medicine as non-mainstream, treatments considered alternative in one location may be considered conventional in another.Critics say the expression is deceptive because it implies there is an effective alternative to science-based medicine, and that complementary is deceptive because it implies that the treatment increases the effectiveness of (complements) science-based medicine, while alternative medicines that have been tested nearly always have no measurable positive effect compared to a placebo. Journalist John Diamond wrote that there is really no such thing as alternative medicine, just medicine that works and medicine that doesn't, a notion later echoed by Paul Offit: The truth is there's no such thing as conventional or alternative or complementary or integrative or holistic medicine. There's only medicine that works and medicine that doesn't. And the best way to sort it out is by carefully evaluating scientific studies—not by visiting Internet chat rooms, reading magazine articles, or talking to friends. Types Alternative medicine consists of a wide range of health care practices, products, and therapies. The shared feature is a claim to heal that is not based on the scientific method. Alternative medicine practices are diverse in their foundations and methodologies. Alternative medicine practices may be classified by their cultural origins or by the types of beliefs upon which they are based. Methods may incorporate or be based on traditional medicinal practices of a particular culture, folk knowledge, superstition, spiritual beliefs, belief in supernatural energies (antiscience), pseudoscience, errors in reasoning, propaganda, fraud, new or different concepts of health and disease, and any bases other than being proven by scientific methods. Different cultures may have their own unique traditional or belief based practices developed recently or over thousands of years, and specific practices or entire systems of practices. Unscientific belief systems Alternative medicine, such as using naturopathy or homeopathy in place of conventional medicine, is based on belief systems not grounded in science. Traditional ethnic systems Alternative medical systems may be based on traditional medicine practices, such as traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), Ayurveda in India, or practices of other cultures around the world. Some useful applications of traditional medicines have been researched and accepted within ordinary medicine, however the underlying belief systems are seldom scientific and are not accepted. Traditional medicine is considered alternative when it is used outside its home region; or when it is used together with or instead of known functional treatment; or when it can be reasonably expected that the patient or practitioner knows or should know that it will not work – such as knowing that the practice is based on superstition. Supernatural energies Bases of belief may include belief in existence of supernatural energies undetected by the science of physics, as in biofields, or in belief in properties of the energies of physics that are inconsistent with the laws of physics, as in energy medicine. Herbal remedies and other substances Substance based practices use substances found in nature such as herbs, foods, non-vitamin supplements and megavitamins, animal and fungal products, and minerals, including use of these products in traditional medical practices that may also incorporate other methods. Examples include healing claims for non-vitamin supplements, fish oil, Omega-3 fatty acid, glucosamine, echinacea, flaxseed oil, and ginseng. Herbal medicine, or phytotherapy, includes not just the use of plant products, but may also include the use of animal and mineral products. It is among the most commercially successful branches of alternative medicine, and includes the tablets, powders and elixirs that are sold as nutritional supplements. Only a very small percentage of these have been shown to have any efficacy, and there is little regulation as to standards and safety of their contents. Religion, faith healing, and prayer NCCIH classification The US agency NCCIH has created a classification system for branches of complementary and alternative medicine that divides them into five major groups. These groups have some overlap, and distinguish two types of energy medicine: veritable which involves scientifically observable energy (including magnet therapy, colorpuncture and light therapy) and putative, which invokes physically undetectable or unverifiable energy. None of these energies have any evidence to support that they affect the body in any positive or health promoting way. Whole medical systems: Cut across more than one of the other groups; examples include traditional Chinese medicine, naturopathy, homeopathy, and ayurveda. Mind-body interventions: Explore the interconnection between the mind, body, and spirit, under the premise that they affect bodily functions and symptoms. A connection between mind and body is conventional medical fact, and this classification does not include therapies with proven function such as cognitive behavioral therapy. Biology-based practices: Use substances found in nature such as herbs, foods, vitamins, and other natural substances. (As used here, biology does not refer to the science of biology, but is a usage newly coined by NCCIH in the primary source used for this article. Biology-based as coined by NCCIH may refer to chemicals from a nonbiological source, such as use of the poison lead in traditional Chinese medicine, and to other nonbiological substances.) Manipulative and body-based practices: feature manipulation or movement of body parts, such as is done in bodywork, chiropractic, and osteopathic manipulation. Energy medicine: is a domain that deals with putative and verifiable energy fields: Biofield therapies are intended to influence energy fields that are purported to surround and penetrate the body. The existence of such energy fields have been disproven. Bioelectromagnetic-based therapies use verifiable electromagnetic fields, such as pulsed fields, alternating-current, or direct-current fields in a non-scientific manner. History The history of alternative medicine may refer to the history of a group of diverse medical practices that were collectively promoted as alternative medicine beginning in the 1970s, to the collection of individual histories of members of that group, or to the history of western medical practices that were labeled irregular practices by the western medical establishment. It includes the histories of complementary medicine and of integrative medicine. Before the 1970s, western practitioners that were not part of the increasingly science-based medical establishment were referred to irregular practitioners, and were dismissed by the medical establishment as unscientific and as practicing quackery. Until the 1970s, irregular practice became increasingly marginalized as quackery and fraud, as western medicine increasingly incorporated scientific methods and discoveries, and had a corresponding increase in success of its treatments. In the 1970s, irregular practices were grouped with traditional practices of nonwestern cultures and with other unproven or disproven practices that were not part of biomedicine, with the entire group collectively marketed and promoted under the single expression alternative medicine.Use of alternative medicine in the west began to rise following the counterculture movement of the 1960s, as part of the rising new age movement of the 1970s. This was due to misleading mass marketing of alternative medicine being an effective alternative to biomedicine, changing social attitudes about not using chemicals and challenging the establishment and authority of any kind, sensitivity to giving equal measure to beliefs and practices of other cultures (cultural relativism), and growing frustration and desperation by patients about limitations and side effects of science-based medicine. At the same time, in 1975, the American Medical Association, which played the central role in fighting quackery in the United States, abolished its quackery committee and closed down its Department of Investigation. : xxi By the early to mid 1970s the expression alternative medicine came into widespread use, and the expression became mass marketed as a collection of natural and effective treatment alternatives to science-based biomedicine. By 1983, mass marketing of alternative medicine was so pervasive that the British Medical Journal (BMJ) pointed to an apparently endless stream of books, articles, and radio and television programmes urge on the public the virtues of (alternative medicine) treatments ranging from meditation to drilling a hole in the skull to let in more oxygen.An analysis of trends in the criticism of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) in five prestigious American medical journals during the period of reorganization within medicine (1965–1999) was reported as showing that the medical profession had responded to the growth of CAM in three phases, and that in each phase, changes in the medical marketplace had influenced the type of response in the journals. London: The Stationery Office. ISBN 978-0-10-483100-7. Wieland, L.S. ; et al. (2011). Development and classification of an operational definition of complementary and alternative medicine for the Cochrane Collaboration. Alternative Therapies in Health and Medicine. 17 (2): 50–59. PMC 3196853. PMID 21717826. Wujastyk, D., ed. (2003). The Roots of Ayurveda: Selections from Sanskrit Medical Writings. Translated by D. Wujastyk. London and New York: Penguin Books. ISBN 978-0-14-044824-5. Further reading Bausell, R.B (2007). Snake oil science: the truth about complementary and alternative medicine. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-531368-0. Benedetti, F.; et al. (2003). Open versus hidden medical treatments: The patient's knowledge about a therapy affects the therapy outcome. Prevention & Treatment. 6 (1). doi:10.1037/1522-3736.6.1.61a. Dawkins, R. (2001). Foreword. In Diamond, J. (ed.). Snake Oil and Other Preoccupations. London: Vintage. ISBN 978-0-09-942833-6. Reprinted in Dawkins 2003. Downing AM, Hunter DG (2003). Validating clinical reasoning: A question of perspective, but whose perspective?. Manual Therapy. 8 (2): 117–119. doi:10.1016/S1356-689X(02)00077-2. PMID 12890440. Eisenberg DM (July 1997). Advising patients who seek alternative medical therapies. Annals of Internal Medicine. 127 (1): 61–69. doi:10.7326/0003-4819-127-1-199707010-00010. PMID 9214254. S2CID 23351104. Gunn IP (December 1998). A critique of Michael L. Millenson's book, Demanding Medical Excellence: Doctors and Accountability in the Information Age, and its Relevance to CRNAs and Nursing. AANA Journal. 66 (6): 575–582. ISSN 0094-6354. PMID 10488264. Hand, W.D. (1980). Folk Magical Medicine and Symbolism in the West. Magical Medicine. Berkeley: University of California Press. pp. 305–319. ISBN 978-0-520-04129-5. OCLC 6420468. Illich, I. (1976). Limits to Medicine: Medical Nemesis: The Expropriation of Health. Penguin. ISBN 978-0-14-022009-4. OCLC 4134656. Mayo Clinic (2007). Mayo Clinic Book of Alternative Medicine: The New Approach to Using the Best of Natural Therapies and Conventional Medicine. Parsippany, New Jersey: Time Home Entertainment. ISBN 978-1-933405-92-6. Planer, F.E. (1988). Superstition (Rev. ed.). Buffalo, New York: Prometheus Books. ISBN 978-0-87975-494-5. OCLC 18616238. Rosenfeld, A. (c. 2000). Where Do Americans Go for Healthcare?. Cleveland, Ohio: Case Western Reserve University. Archived from the original on 2006-05-09. Retrieved 2010-09-23. Snyder, Mariah; Lindquist, Ruth (May 2001). Issues in Complementary Therapies: How We Got to Where We Are. Online Journal of Issues in Nursing. 6 (2): 1. PMID 11469921. Archived from the original on 2017-02-03. Retrieved 2017-01-18. Stevens, P. Jr. (November–December 2001). Magical thinking in complementary and alternative medicine. Skeptical Inquirer. Tonelli MR (2001). The limits of evidence-based medicine. Respiratory Care. 46 (12): 1435–1440, discussion 1440–1441. PMID 11728302. Trivieri, L. Jr. (2002). Anderson, J.W. (ed.). Alternative Medicine: The Definitive Guide. Berkeley: Ten Speed Press. ISBN 978-1-58761-141-4. Wisneski, L.A.; et al. (2005). The scientific basis of integrative medicine. CRC Press. ISBN 978-0-8493-2081-1. Zalewski, Z. (1999). Importance of philosophy of science to the history of medical thinking. CMJ. 40 (1): 8–13. PMID 9933889. Archived from the original on 2004-02-06. World Health Organization Benchmarks for training in traditional / complementary and alternative medicine General Guidelines for Methodologies on Research and Evaluation of Traditional Medicine (PDF). Vol. WHO/EDM/TRM/2001.1. Geneva: World Health Organization (WHO). 2000. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2022-10-09. This document is not a formal publication of the WHO. The views expressed in documents by named authors are solely the responsibility of those authors. WHO Guidelines on Basic Training and Safety in Chiropractic (PDF). Geneva: WHO. 2005. ISBN 978-92-4-159371-7. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2022-10-09. WHO Kobe Centre; Bodeker, G.; et al. (2005). WHO Global Atlas of Traditional, Complementary and Alternative Medicine. WHO. ISBN 978-92-4-156286-7. Summary. Journals Alternative Medicine Review: A Journal of Clinical Therapeutics. Sandpoint, Idaho : Thorne Research, c. 1996 NLM ID: 9705340 Archived 2018-06-12 at the Wayback Machine Alternative Therapies in Health and Medicine. Aliso Viejo, California : InnoVision Communications, c1995- NLM ID: 9502013 Archived 2018-06-12 at the Wayback Machine BMC Complementary and Alternative Medicine Archived 2015-09-24 at the Wayback Machine. London: BioMed Central, 2001 NLM ID: 101088661 Archived 2018-06-12 at the Wayback Machine Complementary Therapies in Medicine. Edinburgh; New York : Churchill Livingstone, c. 1993 NLM ID: 9308777 Archived 2018-06-12 at the Wayback Machine Evidence Based Complementary and Alternative Medicine: eCAM. New York: Hindawi, c. 2004 NLM ID: 101215021 Archived 2018-09-14 at the Wayback Machine Forschende Komplementärmedizin / Research in Complementary Medicine Journal for Alternative and Complementary Medicine New York : Mary Ann Liebert, c. 1995 Scientific Review of Alternative Medicine (SRAM) Archived 2010-08-22 at the Wayback Machine NRI Academy of Medical Sciences (also referred as NRI Medical College) is the first medical academy in Andhra Pradesh, India started by NRIs. It is one of the medical colleges in Guntur District, offering graduate (Masters) and undergraduate (Bachelors) courses in medical sciences. It is located in Chinna Kakani which is part of Mangalagiri Tadepalli Municipal Corporation nearby cities are Guntur and Vijayawada. The academy is affiliated to the Dr. YSR University of Health Sciences Vijayawada. Departments in the main campus Hospital: Over 1280 beds, with General Medicine, Orthopedics, Anesthesia, General Surgery, Ophthalmology, E.N.T, Pediatrics, Dermatology, OBG, Radiology, Medical Oncology, CMO, Physiotherapy, Dental, TB and CD, O.S.D. Specialized: Neurology, Nephrology, Psychiatry, Vascular Surgery. College: Anatomy, Physiology, Biochemistry, Pharmacology, Microbiology, Pathology, Comm. Medicine, Forensic Medicine, Physical Education. Cardiovascular implant therapy Cardiovascular device implant therapy is practiced at the NRI Heart Centre and Research Institute at the main campus. Oncology New building for Oncology and Radiotherapy opened west to main campus. References Illinois Society of Anaesthesiology President of India visited the college on the Graduation day. External links NRIAS official Website All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Gorakhpur better known as AIIMS Gorakhpur is a public medical university located in the Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh. It is one of the 20 operational AIIMS in India. It is one of the four Phase-IV All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) announced in July 2014. History In July 2014, in the budget speech for 2014–15, the Minister of Finance Arun Jaitley announced a budget of ₹500 crore (equivalent to ₹799 crore or US$100 million in 2023) for setting up four new AIIMS, in Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra and the Purvanchal region in Uttar Pradesh, the so-called Phase-IV institutes. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of AIIMS Gorakhpur on 22 July 2016. An outpatient department (OPD) started on 24 February 2019 and the first batch of 50 MBBS students started later that year, making it one of six AIIMSs to become operational in 2019. Surekha Kishor was appointed director in March 2020. Academics It started operation of an outpatient department (OPD) in February 2019 and started MBBS courses later that year, making it one of the six AIIMSs to become operational in 2019. Controversy The executive director of AIIMS Gorakhpur, Dr Surekha Kishore was alleged to have forced medical students to show her their private messages and files on their mobile phones. It was also alleged she directed guards of the institutes to confine students in their rooms. See also AIIMS Raebareli References External links Official website Kamineni Institute of Medical Sciences is a private medical college associated with a 1050-bed teaching Hospital located in Narketpally village, Nalgonda District, Telangana state of India on NH65 about 80 kilometers (50 miles) from the city of Hyderabad. The medical college hospital serves rural population in and around Narketpally. The college campus is known for its beautiful landscapes and the serene atmosphere. Besides local students from the state, students from all over the world come here to pursue Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (M.B.B.S.) Degree. The college is affiliated to Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences and is approved by the Medical Council of India. The medical college is in the process of acquiring Deemed University status. Inception and growth The first batch of the medical college started in 1999 with 100 students. The college was promoted by Sri Kamineni Suryanarayana - an engineer architect, builder and industrialist as a part of Kamineni Education Society. Since 1999, college has gained popularity because of the successful board results and the increasing patient population due to free surgeries conducted by the hospital. The number of students in a batch increased from 100 to 150 and medical PG courses like General Medicine, General Surgery, Radiology, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Pediatrics, Orthopedics, Psychiatry, ENT, Ophthalmology, etc. have been added subsequently. The medical college also participates in the sports meet conducted by the Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences every two years. In the year 2009, a project called Swasthya09 was initiated by the Kamineni students and staff to provide medical care and health awareness to the rural people. Description The college is equipped with many lecture halls with limited multimedia presentation aids, a 200-seat gallery hall and a 1000-seat auditorium. The library called Sahithi is the common library for all the courses which houses recognized text books and books on subjects pertaining to medicine along with scientific journals and papers. A digital library too is provided within the central library for educational purposes with state-of-the-art equipment, however its use is mostly restricted to students to allow them to focus on their studies. In addition to the Central Library all departments of the institution have their own Mini-Libraries with books of their subjects for the faculty. There are five girls' hostels Samhitha, Samskruthi, Samyuktha, Samatha and Sathbhavana [air conditioned] and a boys Samyami Hostel. The hostels are equipped with treated drinking water supply and coolers. There are two playgrounds with a common space for cricket, soccer, Hockey, Athletics and courts for basketball, Lawn Tennis and volleyball. Gyms are provided within hostels and study rooms are available on request to the Dean around the library. Staff quarters are provided for families. The institution emphasizes exclusively on the academic development of budding doctors and discourages lack of discipline amongst students strongly. The security levels of the institution are impressive with constant parole of guards to prevent any rule breaking and indiscipline. To maintain a standard level of decency, students are required to be dressed in uniforms whenever involved in matters related to the institution. The faculty and the management board are deeply involved in the education of the students and in their effort to produce doctors, extra-curricular activities as well as nurturing of hobbies besides academics are mostly frowned upon but not discouraged. The institution rewards toppers of all subjects in the course generously with monetary prizes as well as medals, it also assists deserving students with scholarships. The prize-giving ceremony is held on a day special and important to the institution, known as De-Addiction Day, held in the first week of August each year marking the establishment of a De-Addiction Center in the Kamineni Hospitals. This center brings the lives of many alcoholics and other addicts back on track with medication and constant encouragement and its anniversary is celebrated with great fanfare involving speeches by many well known personalities as well as performances by students. Hospital facilities include 12 operation theaters, a post-operative ward, Acute Medical Care Unit, Intensive Coronary Care Unit (ICCU), Respiratory Intensive Care Unit (RICU) besides super specialties like fledged Cardiology & Cardio Thoracic Surgery, Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Nephrology, Urology, Neurology, Neurosurgery, Pediatric Surgery, Plastic Surgery and Transfusion Medicine departments. Campus Kamineni Institute of Medical Sciences - Graduate and Post-graduate school of Medicine. Kamineni Institute of Dental Sciences Kamineni Institute of Medical Sciences School And College Of Nursing Kamineni Institute Of Paramedical Sciences Sree Vidya Peeth, Residential and day school. Principals Dr. K. Rajendra Babu (1999–2006) Dr.(Col) C.G.Wilson (2006–2011) Dr.(Col) G.S.Saiprasad (2011–2013) Dr. Shruti Mohanty (2013–present) Departments Pre-clinicals Biochemistry Anatomy Physiology Pharmacology Microbiology Pathology Forensic Medicine Genetics Clinicals Ophthalmology ENT Community Medicine General Medicine General Surgery Pediatrics GYN/OBS Orthopedics Dermatology Psychiatry Radiology Cardiology and Cardiothoracic Surgery Neurology and Neurosurgery Pediatric Surgery Nephrology and Urology Gastroenterology Endocrinology Pulmonary medicine References Gole GN, Shekhar T, Gole SG, Prabhala S (September 2010). Successful treatment of buschke-löwenstein tumour by surgical excision alone. Journal of Cutaneous and Aesthetic Surgery. 3 (3): 174–6. doi:10.4103/0974-2077.74496. PMC 3047737. PMID 21430832. Ramana K, Mohanty S (2009). An adult case of urinary tract infection with Kingella kingae: a case report. Journal of Medical Case Reports. 3: 7236. doi:10.1186/1752-1947-3-7236. PMC 2726550. PMID 19830146. Devika Rani, K.; Suneetha, N.; Mohanty, Shruti; Rao, Pragna (2008). Association of hyperhomocysteinemia to alcohol withdrawal in chronic alcoholics. Indian Journal of Clinical Biochemistry. 23 (2): 150–153. doi:10.1007/s12291-008-0033-3. PMC 3453090. PMID 23105741. Kamineni Medical College gets A grade Nirgude AS, Saiprasad GS, Naik PR, Mohanty S (2010). An epidemiological study on fluorosis in an urban slum area of Nalgonda, Andhra Pradesh, India. Indian Journal of Public Health. 54 (4): 194–6. doi:10.4103/0019-557X.77259. PMID 21372366. External links Kamineni Medical College website NTR University of Health Sciences Kamineni Education Society Kamineni Hospitals Swasthya09 In the state of Kerala currently there are 1650 govt medical college seats. These colleges impart training in Modern medicine. The health education system in Kerala also has Medical colleges that impart training in fields of Ayurveda, Homeopathy, Unani medicine, Siddha and Veterinary medicine. These medical institutions are all affiliated to Kerala University of Health Sciences from 2010. The following is a list of government, private, and self-financing medical institutions in Kerala. Medical colleges Government medical colleges Private self-financing Al azhar medical college and super speciality hospital.Thodupuzha idukki 2014 Dental colleges Government controlled Government Dental College, Thiruvananthapuram Government Dental College, Kottayam Private Sector PSM College of Dental Science and Research, Akkikavu, Thrissur Pushpagiri College of Dental Sciences,Pushpagiri Medicity,Perumthuruthy, Thiruvalla, Kerala Ayurveda colleges Government sector Government Ayurveda Medical College Kannur, Medical College P O, Pariyaram, Kannur Private or semi private Pankajakasthuri Ayurveda Medical College, Kattakkada Homeo Medical College Government Homoeopathic Medical College Kozhikode See also KEAM List of engineering colleges in Kerala List of institutions of higher education in Kerala References External links Official website of CEE Pathology is the study of disease and injury. The word pathology also refers to the study of disease in general, incorporating a wide range of biology research fields and medical practices. However, when used in the context of modern medical treatment, the term is often used in a narrower fashion to refer to processes and tests that fall within the contemporary medical field of general pathology, an area that includes a number of distinct but inter-related medical specialties that diagnose disease, mostly through analysis of tissue and human cell samples. Idiomatically, a pathology may also refer to the predicted or actual progression of particular diseases (as in the statement the many different forms of cancer have diverse pathologies, in which case a more proper choice of word would be pathophysiologies), and the affix pathy is sometimes used to indicate a state of disease in cases of both physical ailment (as in cardiomyopathy) and psychological conditions (such as psychopathy). A physician practicing pathology is called a pathologist. As a field of general inquiry and research, pathology addresses components of disease: cause, mechanisms of development (pathogenesis), structural alterations of cells (morphologic changes), and the consequences of changes (clinical manifestations). In common medical practice, general pathology is mostly concerned with analyzing known clinical abnormalities that are markers or precursors for both infectious and non-infectious disease, and is conducted by experts in one of two major specialties, anatomical pathology and clinical pathology. Further divisions in specialty exist on the basis of the involved sample types (comparing, for example, cytopathology, hematopathology, and histopathology), organs (as in renal pathology), and physiological systems (oral pathology), as well as on the basis of the focus of the examination (as with forensic pathology). Pathology is a significant field in modern medical diagnosis and medical research. History The study of pathology, including the detailed examination of the body, including dissection and inquiry into specific maladies, dates back to antiquity. Rudimentary understanding of many conditions was present in most early societies and is attested to in the records of the earliest historical societies, including those of the Middle East, India, and China. By the Hellenic period of ancient Greece, a concerted causal study of disease was underway (see Medicine in ancient Greece), with many notable early physicians (such as Hippocrates, for whom the modern Hippocratic Oath is named) having developed methods of diagnosis and prognosis for a number of diseases. The medical practices of the Romans and those of the Byzantines continued from these Greek roots, but, as with many areas of scientific inquiry, growth in understanding of medicine stagnated somewhat after the Classical Era, but continued to slowly develop throughout numerous cultures. Notably, many advances were made in the medieval era of Islam (see Medicine in medieval Islam), during which numerous texts of complex pathologies were developed, also based on the Greek tradition. Even so, growth in complex understanding of disease mostly languished until knowledge and experimentation again began to proliferate in the Renaissance, Enlightenment, and Baroque eras, following the resurgence of the empirical method at new centers of scholarship. By the 17th century, the study of rudimentary microscopy was underway and examination of tissues had led British Royal Society member Robert Hooke to coin the word cell, setting the stage for later germ theory.Modern pathology began to develop as a distinct field of inquiry during the 19th Century through natural philosophers and physicians that studied disease and the informal study of what they termed pathological anatomy or morbid anatomy. However, pathology as a formal area of specialty was not fully developed until the late 19th and early 20th centuries, with the advent of detailed study of microbiology. In the 19th century, physicians had begun to understand that disease-causing pathogens, or germs (a catch-all for disease-causing, or pathogenic, microbes, such as bacteria, viruses, fungi, amoebae, molds, protists, and prions) existed and were capable of reproduction and multiplication, replacing earlier beliefs in humors or even spiritual agents, that had dominated for much of the previous 1,500 years in European medicine. With the new understanding of causative agents, physicians began to compare the characteristics of one germ's symptoms as they developed within an affected individual to another germ's characteristics and symptoms. This approach led to the foundational understanding that diseases are able to replicate themselves, and that they can have many profound and varied effects on the human host. To determine causes of diseases, medical experts used the most common and widely accepted assumptions or symptoms of their times, a general principal of approach that persists into modern medicine.Modern medicine was particularly advanced by further developments of the microscope to analyze tissues, to which Rudolf Virchow gave a significant contribution, leading to a slew of research developments. By the late 1920s to early 1930s pathology was deemed a medical specialty. Combined with developments in the understanding of general physiology, by the beginning of the 20th century, the study of pathology had begun to split into a number of distinct fields, resulting in the development of a large number of modern specialties within pathology and related disciplines of diagnostic medicine. Etymology The term pathology comes from the Ancient Greek roots of pathos (πάθος), meaning experience or suffering and -logia (-λογία), study of. The Latin term is of early sixteenth-century origin and became increasingly popularized after the 1530s. General pathology The modern practice of pathology is divided into a number of subdisciplines within the distinct but deeply interconnected aims of biological research and medical practice. Biomedical research into disease incorporates the work of a vast variety of life science specialists, whereas, in most parts of the world, to be licensed to practice pathology as a medical specialty, one has to complete medical school and secure a license to practice medicine. Structurally, the study of disease is divided into many different fields that study or diagnose markers for disease using methods and technologies particular to specific scales, organs, and tissue types. Anatomical pathology Anatomical pathology (Commonwealth) or anatomic pathology (United States) is a medical specialty that is concerned with the diagnosis of disease based on the gross, microscopic, chemical, immunologic and molecular examination of organs, tissues, and whole bodies (as in a general examination or an autopsy). Anatomical pathology is itself divided into subfields, the main divisions being surgical pathology, cytopathology, and forensic pathology. Anatomical pathology is one of two main divisions of the medical practice of pathology, the other being clinical pathology, the diagnosis of disease through the laboratory analysis of bodily fluids and tissues. Sometimes, pathologists practice both anatomical and clinical pathology, a combination known as general pathology. Cytopathology Cytopathology (sometimes referred to as cytology) is a branch of pathology that studies and diagnoses diseases on the cellular level. It is usually used to aid in the diagnosis of cancer, but also helps in the diagnosis of certain infectious diseases and other inflammatory conditions as well as thyroid lesions, diseases involving sterile body cavities (peritoneal, pleural, and cerebrospinal), and a wide range of other body sites. Cytopathology is generally used on samples of free cells or tissue fragments (in contrast to histopathology, which studies whole tissues) and cytopathologic tests are sometimes called smear tests because the samples may be smeared across a glass microscope slide for subsequent staining and microscopic examination. However, cytology samples may be prepared in other ways, including cytocentrifugation. Dermatopathology Dermatopathology is a subspecialty of anatomic pathology that focuses on the skin and the rest of the integumentary system as an organ. It is unique, in that there are two paths a physician can take to obtain the specialization. All general pathologists and general dermatologists train in the pathology of the skin, so the term dermatopathologist denotes either of these who has reached a certainly level of accreditation and experience; in the US, either a general pathologist or a dermatologist can undergo a 1 to 2 year fellowship in the field of dermatopathology. The completion of this fellowship allows one to take a subspecialty board examination, and becomes a board certified dermatopathologist. Dermatologists are able to recognize most skin diseases based on their appearances, anatomic distributions, and behavior. Sometimes, however, those criteria do not lead to a conclusive diagnosis, and a skin biopsy is taken to be examined under the microscope using usual histological tests. In some cases, additional specialized testing needs to be performed on biopsies, including immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, electron microscopy, flow cytometry, and molecular-pathologic analysis. One of the greatest challenges of dermatopathology is its scope. More than 1500 different disorders of the skin exist, including cutaneous eruptions (rashes) and neoplasms. Therefore, dermatopathologists must maintain a broad base of knowledge in clinical dermatology, and be familiar with several other specialty areas in Medicine. Forensic pathology Forensic pathology focuses on determining the cause of death by post-mortem examination of a corpse or partial remains. An autopsy is typically performed by a coroner or medical examiner, often during criminal investigations; in this role, coroners and medical examiners are also frequently asked to confirm the identity of a corpse. The requirements for becoming a licensed practitioner of forensic pathology varies from country to country (and even within a given nation) but typically a minimal requirement is a medical doctorate with a specialty in general or anatomical pathology with subsequent study in forensic medicine. The methods forensic scientists use to determine death include examination of tissue specimens to identify the presence or absence of natural disease and other microscopic findings, interpretations of toxicology on body tissues and fluids to determine the chemical cause of overdoses, poisonings or other cases involving toxic agents, and examinations of physical trauma. Forensic pathology is a major component in the trans-disciplinary field of forensic science. Histopathology Histopathology refers to the microscopic examination of various forms of human tissue. Specifically, in clinical medicine, histopathology refers to the examination of a biopsy or surgical specimen by a pathologist, after the specimen has been processed and histological sections have been placed onto glass slides. This contrasts with the methods of cytopathology, which uses free cells or tissue fragments. Histopathological examination of tissues starts with surgery, biopsy, or autopsy. The tissue is removed from the body of an organism and then placed in a fixative that stabilizes the tissues to prevent decay. The most common fixative is formalin, although frozen section fixing is also common. To see the tissue under a microscope, the sections are stained with one or more pigments. The aim of staining is to reveal cellular components; counterstains are used to provide contrast. Histochemistry refers to the science of using chemical reactions between laboratory chemicals and components within tissue. The histological slides are then interpreted diagnostically and the resulting pathology report describes the histological findings and the opinion of the pathologist. In the case of cancer, this represents the tissue diagnosis required for most treatment protocols. Neuropathology Neuropathology is the study of disease of nervous system tissue, usually in the form of either surgical biopsies or sometimes whole brains in the case of autopsy. Neuropathology is a subspecialty of anatomic pathology, neurology, and neurosurgery. In many English-speaking countries, neuropathology is considered a subfield of anatomical pathology. A physician who specializes in neuropathology, usually by completing a fellowship after a residency in anatomical or general pathology, is called a neuropathologist. In day-to-day clinical practice, a neuropathologist is a consultant for other physicians. If a disease of the nervous system is suspected, and the diagnosis cannot be made by less invasive methods, a biopsy of nervous tissue is taken from the brain or spinal cord to aid in diagnosis. Biopsy is usually requested after a mass is detected by medical imaging. With autopsies, the principal work of the neuropathologist is to help in the post-mortem diagnosis of various conditions that affect the central nervous system. Biopsies can also consist of the skin. Epidermal nerve fiber density testing (ENFD) is a more recently developed neuropathology test in which a punch skin biopsy is taken to identify small fiber neuropathies by analyzing the nerve fibers of the skin. This test is becoming available in select labs as well as many universities; it replaces the traditional nerve biopsy test as less invasive. Pulmonary pathology Pulmonary pathology is a subspecialty of anatomic (and especially surgical) pathology that deals with diagnosis and characterization of neoplastic and non-neoplastic diseases of the lungs and thoracic pleura. Diagnostic specimens are often obtained via bronchoscopic transbronchial biopsy, CT-guided percutaneous biopsy, or video-assisted thoracic surgery. These tests can be necessary to diagnose between infection, inflammation, or fibrotic conditions. Renal pathology Renal pathology is a subspecialty of anatomic pathology that deals with the diagnosis and characterization of disease of the kidneys. In a medical setting, renal pathologists work closely with nephrologists and transplant surgeons, who typically obtain diagnostic specimens via percutaneous renal biopsy. The renal pathologist must synthesize findings from traditional microscope histology, electron microscopy, and immunofluorescence to obtain a definitive diagnosis. Medical renal diseases may affect the glomerulus, the tubules and interstitium, the vessels, or a combination of these compartments. Surgical pathology Surgical pathology is one of the primary areas of practice for most anatomical pathologists. Surgical pathology involves the gross and microscopic examination of surgical specimens, as well as biopsies submitted by surgeons and non-surgeons such as general internists, medical subspecialists, dermatologists, and interventional radiologists. Often an excised tissue sample is the best and most definitive evidence of disease (or lack thereof) in cases where tissue is surgically removed from a patient. These determinations are usually accomplished by a combination of gross (i.e., macroscopic) and histologic (i.e., microscopic) examination of the tissue, and may involve evaluations of molecular properties of the tissue by immunohistochemistry or other laboratory tests.There are two major types of specimens submitted for surgical pathology analysis: biopsies and surgical resections. A biopsy is a small piece of tissue removed primarily for surgical pathology analysis, most often in order to render a definitive diagnosis. Types of biopsies include core biopsies, which are obtained through the use of large-bore needles, sometimes under the guidance of radiological techniques such as ultrasound, CT scan, or magnetic resonance imaging. Incisional biopsies are obtained through diagnostic surgical procedures that remove part of a suspicious lesion, whereas excisional biopsies remove the entire lesion, and are similar to therapeutic surgical resections. Excisional biopsies of skin lesions and gastrointestinal polyps are very common. The pathologist's interpretation of a biopsy is critical to establishing the diagnosis of a benign or malignant tumor, and can differentiate between different types and grades of cancer, as well as determining the activity of specific molecular pathways in the tumor. Surgical resection specimens are obtained by the therapeutic surgical removal of an entire diseased area or organ (and occasionally multiple organs). These procedures are often intended as definitive surgical treatment of a disease in which the diagnosis is already known or strongly suspected, but pathological analysis of these specimens remains important in confirming the previous diagnosis. Clinical pathology Clinical pathology is a medical specialty that is concerned with the diagnosis of disease based on the laboratory analysis of bodily fluids such as blood and urine, as well as tissues, using the tools of chemistry, clinical microbiology, hematology and molecular pathology. Clinical pathologists work in close collaboration with medical technologists, hospital administrations, and referring physicians. Clinical pathologists learn to administer a number of visual and microscopic tests and an especially large variety of tests of the biophysical properties of tissue samples involving automated analysers and cultures. Sometimes the general term laboratory medicine specialist is used to refer to those working in clinical pathology, including medical doctors, Ph.D.s and doctors of pharmacology. Immunopathology, the study of an organism's immune response to infection, is sometimes considered to fall within the domain of clinical pathology. Hematopathology Hematopathology is the study of diseases of blood cells (including constituents such as white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets) and the tissues, and organs comprising the hematopoietic system. The term hematopoietic system refers to tissues and organs that produce and/or primarily host hematopoietic cells and includes bone marrow, the lymph nodes, thymus, spleen, and other lymphoid tissues. In the United States, hematopathology is a board certified subspecialty (licensed under the American Board of Pathology) practiced by those physicians who have completed a general pathology residency (anatomic, clinical, or combined) and an additional year of fellowship training in hematology. The hematopathologist reviews biopsies of lymph nodes, bone marrows and other tissues involved by an infiltrate of cells of the hematopoietic system. In addition, the hematopathologist may be in charge of flow cytometric and/or molecular hematopathology studies. Molecular pathology Molecular pathology is focused upon the study and diagnosis of disease through the examination of molecules within organs, tissues or bodily fluids. Molecular pathology is multidisciplinary by nature and shares some aspects of practice with both anatomic pathology and clinical pathology, molecular biology, biochemistry, proteomics and genetics. It is often applied in a context that is as much scientific as directly medical and encompasses the development of molecular and genetic approaches to the diagnosis and classification of human diseases, the design and validation of predictive biomarkers for treatment response and disease progression, and the susceptibility of individuals of different genetic constitution to particular disorders. The crossover between molecular pathology and epidemiology is represented by a related field molecular pathological epidemiology. Molecular pathology is commonly used in diagnosis of cancer and infectious diseases. Molecular Pathology is primarily used to detect cancers such as melanoma, brainstem glioma, brain tumors as well as many other types of cancer and infectious diseases. Techniques are numerous but include quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), multiplex PCR, DNA microarray, in situ hybridization, DNA sequencing, antibody-based immunofluorescence tissue assays, molecular profiling of pathogens, and analysis of bacterial genes for antimicrobial resistance. Techniques used are based on analyzing samples of DNA and RNA. Pathology is widely used for gene therapy and disease diagnosis. Oral and maxillofacial pathology Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology is one of nine dental specialties recognized by the American Dental Association, and is sometimes considered a specialty of both dentistry and pathology. Oral Pathologists must complete three years of post doctoral training in an accredited program and subsequently obtain diplomate status from the American Board of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology. The specialty focuses on the diagnosis, clinical management and investigation of diseases that affect the oral cavity and surrounding maxillofacial structures including but not limited to odontogenic, infectious, epithelial, salivary gland, bone and soft tissue pathologies. It also significantly intersects with the field of dental pathology. Although concerned with a broad variety of diseases of the oral cavity, they have roles distinct from otorhinolaryngologists (ear, nose, and throat specialists), and speech pathologists, the latter of which helps diagnose many neurological or neuromuscular conditions relevant to speech phonology or swallowing. Owing to the availability of the oral cavity to non-invasive examination, many conditions in the study of oral disease can be diagnosed, or at least suspected, from gross examination, but biopsies, cell smears, and other tissue analysis remain important diagnostic tools in oral pathology. Medical training and accreditation Becoming a pathologist generally requires specialty-training after medical school, but individual nations vary some in the medical licensing required of pathologists. In the United States, pathologists are physicians (D.O. or M.D.) who have completed a four-year undergraduate program, four years of medical school training, and three to four years of postgraduate training in the form of a pathology residency. Training may be within two primary specialties, as recognized by the American Board of Pathology: anatomical pathology and clinical Pathology, each of which requires separate board certification. The American Osteopathic Board of Pathology also recognizes four primary specialties: anatomic pathology, dermatopathology, forensic pathology, and laboratory medicine. Pathologists may pursue specialised fellowship training within one or more subspecialties of either anatomical or clinical pathology. Some of these subspecialties permit additional board certification, while others do not.In the United Kingdom, pathologists are physicians licensed by the UK General Medical Council. The training to become a pathologist is under the oversight of the Royal College of Pathologists. After four to six years of undergraduate medical study, trainees proceed to a two-year foundation program. Full-time training in histopathology currently lasts between five and five and a half years and includes specialist training in surgical pathology, cytopathology, and autopsy pathology. It is also possible to take a Royal College of Pathologists diploma in forensic pathology, dermatopathology, or cytopathology, recognising additional specialist training and expertise and to get specialist accreditation in forensic pathology, pediatric pathology, and neuropathology. All postgraduate medical training and education in the UK is overseen by the General Medical Council. In France, pathology is separated into two distinct specialties, anatomical pathology, and clinical pathology. Residencies for both lasts four years. Residency in anatomical pathology is open to physicians only, while clinical pathology is open to both physicians and pharmacists. At the end of the second year of clinical pathology residency, residents can choose between general clinical pathology and a specialization in one of the disciplines, but they can not practice anatomical pathology, nor can anatomical pathology residents practice clinical pathology. Overlap with other diagnostic medicine Though separate fields in terms of medical practice, a number of areas of inquiry in medicine and medical science either overlap greatly with general pathology, work in tandem with it, or contribute significantly to the understanding of the pathology of a given disease or its course in an individual. As a significant portion of all general pathology practice is concerned with cancer, the practice of oncology makes extensive use of both anatomical and clinical pathology in diagnosis and treatment. In particular, biopsy, resection, and blood tests are all examples of pathology work that is essential for the diagnoses of many kinds of cancer and for the staging of cancerous masses. In a similar fashion, the tissue and blood analysis techniques of general pathology are of central significance to the investigation of serious infectious disease and as such inform significantly upon the fields of epidemiology, etiology, immunology, and parasitology. General pathology methods are of great importance to biomedical research into disease, wherein they are sometimes referred to as experimental or investigative pathology.Medical imaging is the generating of visual representations of the interior of a body for clinical analysis and medical intervention. Medical imaging reveals details of internal physiology that help medical professionals plan appropriate treatments for tissue infection and trauma. Medical imaging is also central in supplying the biometric data necessary to establish baseline features of anatomy and physiology so as to increase the accuracy with which early or fine-detail abnormalities are detected. These diagnostic techniques are often performed in combination with general pathology procedures and are themselves often essential to developing new understanding of the pathogenesis of a given disease and tracking the progress of disease in specific medical cases. Examples of important subdivisions in medical imaging include radiology (which uses the imaging technologies of X-ray radiography) magnetic resonance imaging, medical ultrasonography (or ultrasound), endoscopy, elastography, tactile imaging, thermography, medical photography, nuclear medicine and functional imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography. Though they do not strictly relay images, readings from diagnostics tests involving electroencephalography, magnetoencephalography, and electrocardiography often give hints as to the state and function of certain tissues in the brain and heart respectively. Pathology informatics Pathology informatics is a subfield of health informatics. It is the use of information technology in pathology. It encompasses pathology laboratory operations, data analysis, and the interpretation of pathology-related information. Key aspects of pathology informatics include: Laboratory information management systems (LIMS): Implementing and managing computer systems specifically designed for pathology departments. These systems help in tracking and managing patient specimens, results, and other pathology data. Digital pathology: Involves the use of digital technology to create, manage, and analyze pathology images. This includes side scanning and automated image analysis. Telepathology: Using technology to enable remote pathology consultation and collaboration. Quality assurance and reporting: Implementing informatics solutions to ensure the quality and accuracy of pathology processes. Psychopathology Psychopathology is the study of mental illness, particularly of severe disorders. Informed heavily by both psychology and neurology, its purpose is to classify mental illness, elucidate its underlying causes, and guide clinical psychiatric treatment accordingly. Although diagnosis and classification of mental norms and disorders is largely the purview of psychiatry—the results of which are guidelines such as the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, which attempt to classify mental disease mostly on behavioural evidence, though not without controversy—the field is also heavily, and increasingly, informed upon by neuroscience and other of the biological cognitive sciences. Mental or social disorders or behaviours seen as generally unhealthy or excessive in a given individual, to the point where they cause harm or severe disruption to the person's lifestyle, are often called pathological (e.g., pathological gambling or pathological liar). Non-humans Although the vast majority of lab work and research in pathology concerns the development of disease in humans, pathology is of significance throughout the biological sciences. Two main catch-all fields exist to represent most complex organisms capable of serving as host to a pathogen or other form of disease: veterinary pathology (concerned with all non-human species of kingdom of Animalia) and phytopathology, which studies disease in plants. Veterinary pathology Veterinary pathology covers a vast array of species, but with a significantly smaller number of practitioners, so understanding of disease in non-human animals, especially as regards veterinary practice, varies considerably by species. Nevertheless, significant amounts of pathology research are conducted on animals, for two primary reasons: 1) The origins of diseases are typically zoonotic in nature, and many infectious pathogens have animal vectors and, as such, understanding the mechanisms of action for these pathogens in non-human hosts is essential to the understanding and application of epidemiology and 2) those animals that share physiological and genetic traits with humans can be used as surrogates for the study of the disease and potential treatments as well as the effects of various synthetic products. For this reason, as well as their roles as livestock and companion animals, mammals generally have the largest body of research in veterinary pathology. Animal testing remains a controversial practice, even in cases where it is used to research treatment for human disease. As in human medical pathology, the practice of veterinary pathology is customarily divided into the two main fields of anatomical and clinical pathology. Plant pathology Although the pathogens and their mechanics differ greatly from those of animals, plants are subject to a wide variety of diseases, including those caused by fungi, oomycetes, bacteria, viruses, viroids, virus-like organisms, phytoplasmas, protozoa, nematodes and parasitic plants. Damage caused by insects, mites, vertebrate, and other small herbivores is not considered a part of the domain of plant pathology. The field is connected to plant disease epidemiology and especially concerned with the horticulture of species that are of high importance to the human diet or other human utility. See also References All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Mangalagiri (AIIMS Mangalagiri or AIIMS-MG) is a medical research public higher education institute located in the Mangalagiri Tadepalle Municipal Corporation in Guntur district, in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. It is one of the four Phase-IV All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) announced in July 2014. It is located between Guntur and Vijayawada.Foundation stone is laid by Union minister's J.P Nadda , M.Venkaiah Naidu & chief minister of Andhra Pradesh N. Chandrababu Naidu History In July 2014, in the budget speech for 2014–15, the Minister of Finance Arun Jaitley announced a budget of ₹500 crore (equivalent to ₹799 crore or US$100 million in 2023) for setting up four new AIIMS, in Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra and the Purvanchal region in Uttar Pradesh, the so-called Phase-IV institutes. In October 2015 the AIIMS at Manglagiri was approved by the cabinet at a cost of ₹1,618 crore (equivalent to ₹24 billion or US$310 million in 2023). Construction work on the permanent campus started in September 2017. Academics AIIMS Manglagiri commenced the 2018-19 academic session from a temporary campus at Siddhartha Medical College with 50 students. In the 2019-20 academic year, 50 more students joined the institute. The first batch at the permanent campus was the 2020-21 batch with 125 students. The outpatient department at the permanent campus started operating in March 2019. The inpatient department started in January 2021. See also Education in Guntur Education in India List of medical colleges in India References External links Official website The United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) is a three-step examination program for medical licensure in the United States sponsored by the Federation of State Medical Boards (FSMB) and the National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME). Physicians with a Doctor of Medicine (MD) degree are required to pass the USMLE for medical licensure. However, those with a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree (DO) are required to take the COMLEX-USA (COMLEX) exams.States may enact additional testing and/or licensing requirements. Description and purpose The United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) is a multistep assessment required for medical licensure in the United States by all graduates of M.D.-granting American medical schools as well as all graduates of international medical schools. It consists of three examinations: Step 1: Assesses foundational medical science typically obtained during the first two years of medical school Step 2CK: Evaluates the applicant's knowledge of clinical medicine Step 3: Assesses the application of clinical knowledge to patient managementPreviously, USMLE included a clinical skills portion called USMLE Step 2 Clinical Skills. It was discontinued during the COVID-19 pandemic.Step 1 and 2 are typically completed by U.S. medical students during medical school, while Step 3 is usually taken by the end of the first year of residency. While the USMLE Step 1 and Step 2 CK exams can be taken at Prometric test centers worldwide, the Step 3 can only be taken in the United States.The USMLE is sponsored by the Federation of State Medical Boards (FSMB) and the National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME). They developed it originally to provide state medical boards in the United States with a common examination for all licensure applicants. However, over time it has also been extensively used by residency programs to predict residency performance and screen residents for selection during the National Resident Matching Program.Even though it was estimated that at least 60% of osteopathic medical students took at least one USMLE exam in 2020, physicians with D.O. degree are not required to take the USMLE for licensure or graduation. They are licensed as physicians by passing Parts I, II, and III of the COMLEX examination from the National Board of Osteopathic Medical Examiners. History The USMLE was created in the early 1990s. The program replaced the multiple examinations, including the NBME Part Examination program and the FSMB's Federation Licensing Examination (FLEX) program, that offered paths to medical licensing in the medical profession.The examination was originally imparted using pencil and paper. In 1999, computerized examination delivery was included.In 2004, an examination with standardized patients to assess clinical-skills was added to Step 2 of the USMLE (Step 2 Clinical Skills), and required for licensure beginning with the medical school graduating class of 2005. During the COVID-19 pandemic, USMLE Step 2CS was initially suspended and later discontinued.A review of the program was enacted in 2009. USMLE claimed it was done with the intention of orienting the examination to support the licensing decisions made by medical boards, transitioning the exam to a competencies schema and emphasizing the importance of scientific foundations of medicine throughout the examination sequence. They also aimed to continue the assessment of clinical skill and interpretation of clinical information.USMLE announced a move to a pass/fail model on February 12, 2020, along with other changes. They claimed this was done in an attempt by the Federation of State Medical Boards (FSMB) and the National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME) to balance focus between exams and actual coursework. The change became effective in 2022. Pass rates by exam Controversies USMLE response to COVID-19 The USMLE was met with criticism for their lack of adaptability during the COVID-19 pandemic. The criticism was two-fold: First, for the mishandling and poor communication of exam cancellations by both USMLE program administrators and the third-party exam administrator, Prometric. Second, the pandemic crisis exacerbated existing resentment towards the high-stakes nature of the exam: namely, several students and physicians were upset that the USMLE refused to move up the 2022 deadline of making Step 1 into a pass or fail exam. Racial differences in outcome associated with the use of USMLE Step 1 scores to grant residency interviews A study conducted in 2020 showed differences in USMLE Step 1 scores attributable to race and ethnicity, with lower mean scores for self-identified Black, Asian, and Hispanic examinees when compared with self-identified White examinees. The mean effect was larger when comparing Caucasian applicants (223) with Black and Hispanic applicants (216). Depending on the threshold score, an African American was 3–6x less likely to be offered an interview. 61% of minority applicants were accepted into an orthopaedic residency versus 73% of White applicants. White and Asian applicants and residents had higher USMLE Step 1. White applicants and matriculated candidates had higher odds of Alpha Omega Alpha membership compared with Black, Hispanic, and other groups. In 2020, the American Academy of Family Physicians and the Association of American Medical Colleges expressed their support for changing Step 1 to pass or fail, in part to reduce racial bias. Financial considerations The US Medical Licensing Examinations have received criticism due to their high cost. As of 2023, the USMLE charges (in U.S. dollars): $660 for Step 1 for US/Canada students (increasing to $670 in 2024), $1,000 for International medical graduates (IMGs) $660 for Step 2 CK for US/Canada students (increasing to $670 in 2024), $1,000 for IMGs $915 for Step 3 for all students (increasing to $925 in 2024)As part of a broader public plea for systemic changes to the improper use of USMLE exams, STAT wrote that this multimillion-dollar industry has exploited the opportunity to extract thousands of dollars from already overly indebted students. Registering for STEP exams test cost $645–1300, while Step preparation materials and courses run much higher. Similar exams The Comprehensive Osteopathic Medical Licensing Examination (COMLEX-USA) is required for osteopathic physicians in the United States The American Podiatric Medical Licensing Examination (APMLE) is required for Podiatric Physicians in the United States. In other countries Ärztliche Prüfungen, overseen by the IMPP, in Germany Australian Medical Council (AMC) examinations in Australia. Examen Nacional de Aspirantes a Residencias Médicas (ENARM) in Mexico Épreuves classantes nationales ECNi in France Hong Kong Medical Licensing Examination (HKMLE) in Hong Kong. Examination for Provisional Registration (EPR) in Malaysia. Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination, in Canada Pakistan Medical Commission NEBand NLE Exam,Pakistan Medical Council of India (MCI-FMGE conducted by National Board of Examinations) National Eligibility and Entrance Test, India Nepal Medical Council, in Nepal. National Examination for Medical Practitioners in Japan Professional and Linguistic Assessment Board test (similar exam used in United Kingdom) Saudi Medical Licensing Examination (SMLE) in Saudi Arabia Ujian Kompetensi Dokter Indonesia (UKDI) Indonesian Doctor Competence Examination, in Indonesia. Bahrain Medical Licensure Examination (BLME) in Bahrain. Kunskapsprov för läkare, overseen by Umeå University, in Sweden. References External links Official website For International medical graduates SUT Academy of Medical Sciences is located in Thiruvananthapuram, the capital of Kerala state, India. It was founded in 2006 and is managed under the Sri. Moogambigai Charitable Trust. Location SUT Academy of Medical Sciences is in the capital city of Kerala, Thiruvananthapuram — just 13 kilometers from Thiruvananthapuram city. The college campus and the hospital lie on Vattappara to Nedumangad road, at Vencod Junction. History of the SUT Group of Hospitals Sree Uthradom Thirunal Hospital was inaugurated by E. K. Nayanar, then chief minister of Kerala, in 1987, at a time when tertiary care facilities were extremely inadequate in this part of the country. The main aim of the hospital was to establish such advanced medical and surgical facilities one by one. The hospital was started with full facilities for Interventional Cardiology and Open Heart Surgery. The first coronary artery bypass surgery on beating heart in Kerala was done here. The first Mitral valvuloplasty was done here as well in 1988, three years after its introduction. {SUT Group started its second hospital, SUT Mother & Baby Hospital, at Pattom in 2001. It is devoted to high standards of care in Obstetrics, Gynecology and Neonatology. The Academy was started in 2006 based in 30 acres of grounds.A new SUT Royal Hospital was started near Ulloor in 2010. SUT Group, under the Dr. K.N. Pai Heart Foundation had established a SUT Rural General Hospital at Vattappara, Nedumangad Municipality, to provide medical care at affordable costs. This hospital became the choice for the establishment of the new medical college, which is now being expanded to make it a center for the learning and practice of medicine. Currently, the hospital and campus is run by Sri.Moogambigai Charitable and educational Trust. Campus The campus contains separate hostels for men and women, each complete with a study room, entertainment and indoor games room and an in-house gymnasium. Administration The college is headed by principal Dr. Ambili Remesh and governed by Sri. Moogambigai Charitable and Education Trust. Academics The first batch of students was admitted in October 2006. The annual admission is 150 students.The four and a half year course offered by the institution is M.B.B.S. and it has to precede a one year serving as an intern.The hospital also have MD/MS courses in various department as per the NMC norms. Academic departments Pre-Clinical (two semesters) Anatomy Physiology BiochemistryPara-Clinical (three semesters) Pharmacology Microbiology Pathology Forensic MedicineClinical (four semesters) Community Medicine General Medicine General Surgery Obstetrics & Gynaecology Paediatrics Ophthalmology ENTEach semester consists of roughly six months. See also Colleges in Thiruvananthapuram district Vattappara University of Kerala References External links [Satellite picture of SUT Campus at http://wikimapia.org/831818/SUT-Academy-of-Medical-Sciences] Pravara Institute of Medical Sciences is located in Ahmednagar, Maharashtra, India. Its parent trust, Pravara Medical Trust, was founded by Vithalrao Vikhe Patil in 1972 while the university was founded by Balasaheb Vikhe Patil. It was granted status by the University Grants Commission in 2003 as a Deemed University, but now with the recent changes made is to be called Deemed to be university. The deemed to be University has following constituent units under its ambit. 1. Rural Medical College 2. Rural Dental College 3. Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam College of Physiotherapy 4. College of Nursing 5. Centre for Biotechnology 6. Centre for Social Medicine. References External links Official website A bachelor's degree (from Middle Latin baccalaureus) or baccalaureate (from Modern Latin baccalaureatus) is an undergraduate degree awarded by colleges and universities upon completion of a course of study lasting three to six years (depending on institution and academic discipline). The two most common bachelor's degrees are the Bachelor of Arts (BA) and the Bachelor of Science (BS or BSc). In some institutions and educational systems, certain bachelor's degrees can only be taken as graduate or postgraduate educations after a first degree has been completed, although more commonly the successful completion of a bachelor's degree is a prerequisite for further courses such as a master's or a doctorate. In countries with qualifications frameworks, bachelor's degrees are normally one of the major levels in the framework (sometimes two levels where non-honours and honours bachelor's degrees are considered separately). However, some qualifications titled bachelor's degree may be at other levels (e.g., MBBS) and some qualifications with non-bachelor's titles may be classified as bachelor's degrees (e.g. the Scottish MA and Canadian MD). The term bachelor in the 12th century referred to a knight bachelor, who was too young or poor to gather vassals under his own banner. By the end of the 13th century, it was also used by junior members of guilds or universities. By folk etymology or wordplay, the word baccalaureus came to be associated with bacca lauri (laurel berry) in reference to laurels being awarded for academic success or honours.Under the British system, and those influenced by it, undergraduate academic degrees are differentiated between honours degrees (sometimes denoted by the addition of (Hons) after the degree abbreviation) and non-honours degrees (known variously as pass degrees, ordinary degrees or general degrees). An honours degree generally requires a higher academic standard than a pass degree, and in some systems an additional year of study beyond the non-honours bachelor's. Some countries, such as Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and Canada, have a postgraduate bachelor with honours degree. This may be taken as a consecutive academic degree, continuing on from the completion of a bachelor's degree program in the same field, or as part of an integrated honours program. Programs like these typically require completion of a full year-long research thesis project. Scheme of completion periods in each country The map shows how long it takes for students in different countries to get a bachelor's degree. It generally takes between 3 and 6 years. Variations Africa In most African countries, the university systems follow the model of their former colonizing power. For example, the Nigerian university system is similar to the British system, while the Ivorian system is akin to the French. Algeria Bachelor's degrees in Algerian universities are called الليسانس in Arabic or la licence in French; the degree normally takes three years to complete and is a part of the LMD (licence, master, doctorat) reform, students can enroll in a bachelor's degree program in different fields of study after having obtained their baccalauréat (the national secondary education test). The degree is typically identical to the program of France's universities, as specified in the LMD reform. Bachelor's degree programs cover most of the fields in Algerian universities, except some fields, such as Medicine and Pharmaceutical Science. Botswana Bachelor's degrees at the University of Botswana normally take four years. The system draws on both British and American models. Degrees are classified as First Class, Second Class Division One (2:1), Second Class Division Two (2:2) and Third as in English degrees, but without being described as honours. The main degrees are named by British tradition (Arts, Science, Law, etc. ), but in recent years, there have been a number of degrees named after specific subjects, such as Bachelor of Library and Information. Kenya In Kenya, university education is supported by the government. A bachelor's degree is awarded to students who successfully complete a three to seven-year course depending on the area of study. For most degree programs, a research project and an internship period after which a report is written by the student is a must before the student is allowed to graduate. In 2012, a number of select colleges were upgraded to university status in a bid to increase the intake of students into degree programs. Morocco In Morocco, a bachelor's degree is referred to as al-ʾijāzah (Arabic, French: licence). The course of study takes three years, which are further divided into two cycles. The first cycle comprises the first, or propaedeutic, year. After successfully completing their first two years, students can pursue either theoretical specialization (études fondamentales) or professional specialization (études professionnelles). The second cycle is one year after whose completion students receive the licence d'études fondamentales or the licence professionnelle. This academic degree system was introduced in September 2003. Nigeria University admission is extremely competitive, with attendant advantages and disadvantages. Nonetheless, it takes four to five years to complete a bachelor's degree. In cases of poor performance, the time limit is double the standard amount of time. For example, one may not study for more than 10 years for a five-year course. Students are normally asked to leave if they must take longer. Nigerian universities offer BSc, BTech (usually from Universities of Technology), BArch (six years), and other specialized undergraduate degrees, such as BEng. Science undergraduate degrees may require six months or a semester dedicated to SIWES (Students Industrial Work Experience Scheme) but it is usually mandatory for all engineering degrees. A semester for project work/thesis is required, not excluding course work, during the bachelor thesis in the final year. The classifications of degrees: first-class, second-class (upper and lower), third-class (with honours; i.e., BSc (Hons)) and a pass (no honours). First- and second-class graduates are immediately eligible for advanced postgraduate degrees (i.e., MSc and PhD), but other classes may be required for an additional postgraduate diploma before such eligibility.Furthermore, all graduating students are obliged to do the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) requirement, which usually takes one year, after which they are eligible to pursue higher degrees. The NYSC is a paramilitary service that involves students' being posted to different parts of the country to serve in various capacities. Principal objectives of the NYSC are to forge national cohesion, encourage students to apply their obtained knowledge to solving problems of rural Nigeria, and others. The NYSC was established by law after the Nigerian Civil War.Polytechnical schools (polytechnics) in Nigeria are not considered universities. They are mandated to educate technicians of high calibre; they offer the OND (ordinary national diploma) and the HND (higher national diploma). The polytechnics focus very strongly on practical technical training. The BSc and HND are compared in engineering circles, but there are significant differences in training philosophies. Honours degrees in Nigeria are differentiated only on the basis of performance. Honours degrees include the first-class degree, second-class degrees (upper and lower) and the third-class degree, but not the pass. All university students must do an independent research project which applies the knowledge obtained during the previous years of study. The project work must be submitted in the semester before graduation and usually takes a significant number of points. Further course work is not precluded during the project work, but the courses are fewer and are at an advanced level. Project work is orally defended before the faculty and before peers. In the sciences and engineering a demonstration of the project is usually required. The exceptions are theoretical work. South Africa In South Africa, an honours degree is an additional postgraduate qualification in the same area as the undergraduate major, and requires at least one further year of study as well as a research report. Tunisia In Tunisia, a bachelor's degree is referred to as al-ʾijāzah in Arabic, or la license in French; the degree takes three years to complete and is a part of the LMD (license, master, doctorat) reform, students can enroll in a bachelor's degree program in different fields of study after having obtained their baccalauréat (the national secondary education test). The degree is typically identical to the program of France's universities, as specified in the LMD reform. Most universities in Tunisia offer the 3-year bachelor's degree, except some fields, which are Medicine, Pharmacy, Engineering, Architecture and Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, solely offered by Tunis Business School and lasts 4 years. The Americas Usually the region presents associates, bachelor's, master's, doctoral, and postdoctoral degrees. Brazil In Brazil, a bachelor's degree takes from three years to six years to complete depending on the course load and the program. A bachelor's degree is the title sought by Brazilians in order to be a professional in a certain area of human knowledge. Master's and doctoral degrees are additional degrees for those seeking an academic career or a specific understanding of a field. Even without a formal adhesion to the Bologna system, a Brazilian bachelor's would correspond to a European first cycle. A Brazilian bachelor's takes three to six years for completion, as well as usually a written monograph or concluding project, in the same way that a European bachelor's can be finished in three to four years, after which time Europeans may embark on a one- to two-year 2nd cycle program usually called a master's, according to the Bologna Process. Depending on programs and personal choices, Europeans can achieve a master's degree in as little as four years (a three-year bachelor's and a one-year master's) and as long as six years (a four-year bachelor's, a two-year master's) of higher education. In Brazil it would be possible to have a specialization lato-sensu degree—which differs from a Brazilian stricto-sensu master's degree—in as little as three years (two years for a tecnólogo degree and an additional year for a specialization) or as long as eight years (six years for professional degrees, plus two years for a master's stricto-sensu degree—typical in medicine or engineering). Canada Education in Canada is governed independently by each province and territory; however, a common framework for degrees was agreed to by the Council of Ministers of Education, Canada, in 2007. This adopted descriptors for bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees that were deliberately similar to those defined by the Bologna Process.Under the framework, four general forms of bachelor's degree are defined: general programs that provide a broad education and prepare graduates for graduate-entry professional programs or employment generally; in-depth academic programs in a specific subject that prepare graduates for postgraduate study in the field or employment generally; applied programs that concentrate on a mastery of practice rather than knowledge; and professional programs, often (but not exclusively) graduate-entry, that prepare graduates to practice as professionals in a specific field. This last category includes graduate-entry degrees titled as if they were doctorates, such as MD, JD and DDS degrees—despite their names, these are considered bachelor's degrees.Bachelor's degrees may take either three or four years to complete and are awarded by colleges and universities. In many universities and colleges, bachelor's degrees are differentiated either as (ordinary) bachelor's or as honours bachelor's degrees. The term honours is an academic distinction, which indicates that students must achieve their bachelor's degree with a sufficiently high overall grade point average; in addition, some programs may require more education than non-honours programs. The honours degrees are sometimes designated with the abbreviation in brackets of (Hon(s)). Going back in history, the Bachelor with Honours (Latin baccalaureatus cum honore, French: baccalauréat spécialisé) was traditionally taken as the highest undergraduate degree. The program requires at least 4 years of studies, with strong emphasis on the research-based Honours Seminar Thesis which is considered approximately equivalent to a formal master's thesis. Universities show the academic degree as well as the possible honours distinction (Latin honours) on the diploma (e.g., BACCALAUREATUS ARTIUM CUM HONORE ... CUM LAUDE). In Quebec, students have to take a minimum of two years of college before entering, for example, a three-year Bachelor of Science (BSc) or a four-year Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) program. As a consequence, there is no de jure honours degree (although some universities market some of their programs as being de facto honours degrees in their English-language materials) but there are some specializations called concentrations in French, which are mostly taken as optional courses. In the province of Ontario, the most bachelor's degrees offered by Ontario universities are academic in nature. In contrast, Ontario legislation requires bachelor's degrees offered by Ontario colleges to be applied and vocationally focused. Colombia In Colombia, secondary school has two milestones, in 9th and 11th grades. After completing the first 4 years of secondary school (6th, 7th, 8th and 9th grades), a student is considered to have completed the basic secondary school while after completed the last two years (10th and 11th grades) is considered to have completed bachillerato or high school diploma. This degree can be either academic (the most common) or: military, given by military specialised schools. It provides the opportunity for male students not to go to otherwise compulsory military service. commercial, which grants students focused skills on accountancy. technical, which grants students focused skills on technical abilities such as electricity, mechanics and related matters. academic, which grants students focused skills on elementary education.After graduating from high-school, hopeful students must take a nationwide exam that determines their eligibility to apply for their desired program, depending on the score the student achieves on the exam. In Colombia, the system of academic degrees is similar to the US model. After completing their bachillerato (high school), students can take one of three options. The first one is called a profesional (professional career), which is similar to a bachelor's degree requiring from four to six years of study according to the chosen program. However, strictly-career-related subjects are taken from the very beginning unlike US where focused career-related subjects usually are part of the curriculum from the third year. The other option is called a técnico (technician); this degree consists of only two and a half years of study and prepares the student for technical or mechanical labors. Finally, the third option is called a tecnólogo (equivalent to an associate degree), and consist of 3 years of study. A technical school gives to the student, after a program of two years, an undergraduate degree in areas like software development, networks and IT, accountancy, nursing and other areas of health services, mechanics, electricity and technic-like areas. Universities offer graduate degrees in ICFES endorsed programs like medicine, engineering, laws, accountancy, business management and other professional areas. A typical undergraduate program usually takes 10 or 11 semesters and some (i.e. medicine) require an additional period of service or practice to apply for the degree. A student who has obtained an undergraduate degree can opt to continue studying a career after completing their undergraduate degree by continuing onto master's and doctorate degrees. They can also choose to do a specialization in certain fields of study by doing an extra year. Costa Rica, El Salvador and Venezuela In these countries, there are two titles that should not be confused: High school students who pass their bachillerato or high school exams obtain a certificate of Bachiller de Educación Secundaria (not the same as a 'Bachelor' for higher education degrees), which is needed in order to enter a university and is usually requested by companies in their profiles. University students obtain an American equivalent bachelor's degree in their respective fields after completing four years of education, and a licenciatura licentiate degree completing one more year of studies (and meeting other requisites unique to each institution, it is common to write a dissertation on the professional field), this enables them to work as professionals in their chosen areas; for example, a Profesor en Enseñanza Secundaria (Licentiate degree in secondary education) enables a person to work as a high school teacher. Currently, the trend is for universities not to offer a bachelor's degree and to offer instead a licentiate's or ingeniero degree after five years of education. Guyana In Guyana, the universities offer bachelor programs in different streams like Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Science in nursing, design and arts, liberal arts, psychology, Doctor of Medicine (MD) and other health science programs. These programs are delivered by University of Guyana, Texila American University, Green Heart Medical University, Lesley university and many more offers these bachelor programs. Mexico Bachelor's degrees may take an average of five years (from four to five years) to complete depending on the course load and the program and they are awarded by colleges and universities. Medicine is from 6 to 7 years. Each college has its own curriculum and requirements with an emphasis of their choice, governed independently by each state of the republic. After finishing all the subjects the student require a final work, which means the completion of particular honours seminars, research and development or a written thesis in a particular field. Mexico's regulations established as an obligation in order to receive their license and title the fulfillment of a social service to the nation (usually for those who finished their studies in a public institution) as a remuneration to society in the form of social actions, the benefits, as students, were received during training. This requirement takes about six months to one year depending on the type of degree. Bachelor's degree should not be falsely related with its Spanish cognate bachiller, which designate a prerequisite for matriculate in a career or bachelor studies. The official name for a bachelor's degree in Mexico is licenciado and such studies are referred as licenciatura. Bachelor's degrees should not be confused with Engineering Degrees, where an Ingeniería is prefixed to the name and requires additional courses for certification as an Engineer. United States Bachelor's degrees in the United States are typically designed to be completed in four years of full-time study, which typically represents an average of 15 hours of weekly instruction per four-month semester, two semesters per year, for a total of eight semesters and 120 instructional credit hours, although some programs, such as engineering or architecture, may take five years, and some universities and colleges allow students, usually with the help of summer school, who are taking many classes each semester or who have existing credit from high school Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate course exams, to complete them more rapidly. Some US colleges and universities have a separate academic track known as an honours or scholars program, generally offered to the top percentile of students, based on GPA, that offers more challenging courses or more individually directed seminars or research projects instead or in addition to the standard core curriculum. Those students are awarded the same bachelor's degree as students completing the standard curriculum but with the notation in cursu honorum on the transcript and the diploma. Usually, the above Latin honours are separate from the notation for this honours course, but a student in the honours course generally must maintain grades worthy of at least the cum laude notation anyway. Talmudic law The Bachelor of Talmudic Law degree (BTL) or a First Talmudic Degree (FTD) is the degree awarded in most Yeshivas around the United States. Tourism studies The Bachelor of Tourism Studies (BTS) degree is awarded to those who complete the four- or five-year course of study in tourism, laws regarding tourism, planning and development, marketing, economics, sociology, anthropology, arts and world history (dependent on the country in which one takes the course), ticketing, hospitality, computer applications, and much more. The course would have an interdisciplinary approach with a vast range of units so the tourismologist professional would be able to identify necessary actions toward a sustainable touristic environment focus on local community uniqueness, values and traditions. As tourism is a growing industry, in India there is a lot of opportunity for those who complete this course of study. It is available in select universities of India. Mathematics The Bachelor of Mathematics or Bachelor of Mathematical Sciences degree (BMath and BMathSc) is given at the conclusion of a four-year honours program or a three-year general program. Several universities, mostly in Canada and Australia, award such degrees. The usual degree for mathematics in all other countries is the BSc. Urban and regional planning The Bachelor of Urban and Regional Planning or Bachelor of Urban Planning or just Bachelor of Planning degree (BURP, BUP, or BPlan) is a degree offered at some institutions as a four or five-year professional undergraduate degree in urban planning. Programs vary in their focus on studio work and may or may not involve professional practice. Innovation The Bachelor of Innovation is a four-year degree in a range of different fields. The major fields, in engineering, business, arts, science or education, are similar to their associated BA or BSc degrees. The general education elements are restructured to provide a common core of innovation, entrepreneurship and team skills. The degree was created as a direct response to the increasing pace of innovation in today's society and the need for graduates that understanding effective teaming, as well as the innovation process. See also Elective bachelor's degree Graduate school Honours degree Licentiate (degree) Licensure List of admission tests to colleges and universities Master's degree Associate degree Validation of foreign studies and degrees References External links College.gov, US Department of Education Education and Learning: Bachelor's Degrees: Qualifications Explained UK Government site listing qualifications for bachelor's degrees in the UK Meaning of the Baccalaureate, National Forum on College Level Learning (US) Statistical Pilot Study of the Baccalaureate (2004) The Liaquat University of Medical and Health Sciences (LUMHS) (Sindhi: لياقت يونيورسٽي آف ميڊيڪل اينڊ هيلٿ سائنسز) is a public medical university located in Jamshoro, Sindh, Pakistan. Ever since it started as a medical school, it is known for its mission to bring innovative advances to medical education and to train undergraduate and postgraduate students with highest professional standards. It is in conjunction with Liaquat University Hospital and NIMRA Cancer Hospital. The university has been ranked among top medical schools by Higher Education Commission (Pakistan). History LUMHS is the second oldest medical school in Pakistan and the oldest in Sindh. In 1879, it was recommended by a surgeon general and the Government of Bombay to the Commissioner in Sind to start a medical school. Sindh Medical School was subsequently started by Dr. Homestead and inaugurated by Henry Napier Bruce Erskine, the Commissioner in Sind province at the time, in 1881. 20 students were admitted and imparted with the training of licentiate physicians. The government started regulating the medical school in 1928. After the Medical Council of India decided to upgrade the status of medical schools to degree-awarding medical colleges, a committee was set up in 1941, consisting of Dr. Hemandas Rupchand Wadhwani (Minister of Public Health), Col. J. E. Gray (Inspector General of Civil Hospitals) and Mr. P. W. Abhichandani (Executive Engineer) to make plans for the new medical college. Major (later Lt Col) Aziz Khan eventually led this project. It was later upgraded to the status of medical college known as Sindh Medical College in 1942. After Sind province got separated from Bombay Presidency, the college started teaching MBBS under University of Bombay. The requirements set by the university to maintain the affiliation led to the college being shifted to Karachi on December 10, 1945, and as a result, it was renamed as Dow Medical College. The Sindh government subsequently restarted the old medical college in the premises of the same civil hospital at Hyderabad in 1951, which acquired its name as Liaquat Medical College (LMC), after the name of first prime minister of Pakistan, Liaquat Ali Khan. Liaquat Medical College Hospital (later known as Liaquat University Hospital) was simultaneously started in the premises of the university. The LMC was affiliated with University of Sindh. The college with its journey and natural growth for more than 62 years made tremendous contributions in both medical education and health care in the province and the country. Relocation The college was shifted to its new campus which spreads over 570 acres at Jamshoro in 1963 as the provincial government found the campus in Hyderabad to be inadequate and not sufficient to meet the demands of a top tier medical college. Faculty of Dentistry was also introduced in the same year after relocation. It became the second oldest and the largest institute of dentistry in the country. Postgraduate courses were also started simultaneously. After an ordinance was passed by Government of Sindh in 2001, it was upgraded to the status of the first public-sector medical university of the country. IT project was approved in 2002. The university was ranked as the second best medical university in Pakistan throughout its initial years after being upgraded by the HEC.In 2019, the university was made the Admitting University and it conducted the provincial Entry Test to MBBS and BDS through the testing agency of National Testing Service (NTS). Programs offered Along with MBBS and BDS programs offered by the university, other research-based programs like D-Pharmacy, BS biomedical engineering, BS technology, and diplomas are also offered. BSc Nursing is also offered by two nursing schools. Pakistan's first male-only medical college, Bilawal Medical College, is also affiliated with LUMHS. Academic profile The university offers degrees in the following departments: Department of Medicine Department of Pediatrics Department of Pulmonology/Chest Medicine Department of Cardiology Department of Dermatology Department of Neurology Department of Nephrology Department of Psychiatry Department of Family Medicine Department of Gastroenterology Department of Nuclear Medicine Medical education Around 350 medical students graduate every year and practice medicine in their respective districts and/or pursue postgraduate studies. Curriculum The MBBS curriculum consists of 2 years of preclinical basic medical sciences, followed by 3 years of clinical curriculum. In 2008, the university introduced semester system for the first time in the country which was later replaced by the annual system in 2019 after the amendment of PMDC Regulations, 2018. In 2020, integrated modular curriculum was introduced in the university. Postgraduate courses In 1989, after the number of postgraduate courses rapidly expanded, Postgraduate Medical Centre was established. It soon became recognized for its training of FCPS and MCPS in all disciplines of medicine, surgery, dentistry and allied sciences. It also received recognition from British Medical Association, ECFMG and several other international bodies. Thousands of specialists have graduated with postgraduate qualifications of MD, M.Phil, MS and diplomas from the centre. Research and Development In 2021, the university set up first ever cancer research laboratory in Pakistan.First ever endoscopic discectomy surgery in any public sector hospital of Sindh was also performed at the university's neurosurgery department.The university has also taken numerous steps throughout its history to foster research programs.Journal of Liaquat University of Medical and Health Sciences (JLUMHS) Jamshoro, Pakistan, publishes original manuscripts, case reports and reviews on topics pertaining to medical and health sciences. It is included in Index Medicus for WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region (IMEMR) as well as Embase. Liaquat Medical Research Journal (LMRJ) [ISSN (Print): 2664-5734] is a print and online (double blind, peer-reviewed) journal devoted to publishing innovative research and scholastic / academic content from all fields of medical and health sciences, concentrating on recent advances in clinical, diagnostic and preventive domains.Research Journal of Engineering & Technology publishes scientific research articles that describe the latest research and developments in engineering, medical sciences and technology. Medical Research Center The Medical Research Center (MRC) promotes the health of people in Pakistan and around the world by sponsoring good science and training scientists. MRC collaborates closely with Pakistani health facilities to host clinical research/trials through its established hospital-based clinical research sites. The Medical Research Centre (MRC) conducts research in a variety of fields and provides technical and advisory research services to local and international clients/investigators/sponsors who may want technical assistance or collaboration in the implementation of health research. National and international collaborations are encouraged in collaboration with other research institutes, academics, and business groups, and they use their networks and influence to form new partnerships that produce exceptional research and innovation in the health sector. See also List of universities in Pakistan List of medical schools in Pakistan References External links LUMHS official website Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre (VIMS) is in Whitefield, Bangalore, India. It is an independent medical institute dedicated to education, research and patient care. VIMS was established in 2000 and is promoted by Srinivasa trust. Healthcare Vydehi Hospital in Bangalore is one of India's largest Multispecialty hospitals with a capacity of 1520 beds, with equipment and facilities like MRI, spiral CT scan, cardiac echo machine, cardiac catheterization lab, ultrasound equipment, linear accelerator, etc. All diagnostic facilities are available through the central diagnostic lab and radiology departments. Other specialty departments such as Neuro, Ortho, Gastroenterology were available round the clock in the hospital. Education Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre has four academic institutions: Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences Vydehi Institute of Dental Sciences Vydehi Institute of Nursing Sciences Vydehi Institute of Biotechnology SciencesThe campus also has two specialty centers: Vydehi Institute of Rehabilitation and Vydehi Ayurveda Gram. The institute offers undergraduate and post-graduate degrees. The college annually accepts 250 students for the MBBS undergraduate course. Admission to this course is made through a merit list prepared on the basis of the scores of the candidates in neet exam. Post-graduate admission is 56 seats.Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences is recognized by Medical Council of India and affiliated to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences. VIMS is included in the directory of the World Health Organization, which is required to be recognized internationally for purposes of higher postgraduate education and employment opportunities. It has tie-ups with the University of Georgia and University of California.The Vydehi Institute of Dental Sciences is recognized by Dental Council of India and is affiliated to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences. Admission to this course is made through a merit list prepared on the basis of candidate scores in the neet exam followed by Centralized Counseling. Number of seats allotted in BDS is 60 per year. The Vydehi Institute of Nursing Sciences and Research Centre recognized by Indian Nursing Council and affiliated to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences. Total of 100 seats are allotted in B.Sc. Nursing. Vydehi Institute of Biotechnology Science Affiliated to Bangalore University offers 40 in M.Sc. Biotechnology. And 60 in B.Sc. Biotechnology (Biochemistry, Genetics and Biotechnology)There are paramedical courses offered by the institute and that are affiliated to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences. Number of seats are 20.The institute is involved in conducting research in medical subjects. Biotech Institute and Biotech Park signed an international co-operative agreement with University of Georgia, Athens, USA for research-oriented work to update the knowledge database. Vydehi Institute further widens its academic horizon with the establishments of super-specialty departments. Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences (SBUMS, Persian: دانشگاه علوم پزشکی و خدمات بهداشتی-درمانی شهيد بهشتی, Danushgah-e 'lum-e Pezeshki-ye vâ Xedâmat-e Behedashti - Dârmani-ye Shihid Beheshti) is one of the three medical universities in Tehran, the capital of Iran. It began in 1961 with the establishment of the Schools of Medicine and Dentistry. Following the merging of some of the treatment and educational units and organizations affiliated with the then-Ministry of Health and “Melli University” (National University) in 1986, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences began its activities independently. The university is government funded. Former presidents Dr. Fereydoon Azizi Dr. Seyed Mahmood Tabatabaeifard Dr. Habibollah Peyravi Dr. Alireza Zali Dr. Shahin Mohammadsadeghi Dr. Mohammadreza Razaghi Dr. Ali asghar Peyvandi Dr. Mohammad Haji Aghajani Ranking URAP (University Ranking by Academic Performance) 2012-2013: Rank in world: 2016, Medical: 6 2013-2014: Rank in world: 1711, Medical: 5 2014-2015: Rank in world: 1053, Medical: 5 2015-2016: Rank in world: 926, Medical: 2 Colleges and schools Schools The university has 12 schools admitting students for 40 fellowships, 24 sub-specialties, 34 specialties, 43 PhDs, 3 general medical fields (medicine, dentistry, and pharmacy), to 63 majors at MSC and BSC levels. The university has 1300 academic staff that educates 12,500 students. The university includes 4 research institutes and 62 research centers. School of Medicine School of Dentistry School of Pharmacy School of Public Health School of Rehabilitation School of Traditional Medicine School of Paramedical Sciences School of Medical Education Sciences School of Nursing And Midwifery School of Health, Safety And Environment School of Advanced Technologies in Medicine School of Nutrition Sciences & Food Technology Research institutes Research Institute for Dental Sciences Research Institute for Endocrine Science National Nutrition and Food Technology Research Institute National Research Institute for Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases Research centers Anesthesiology Research Center Behavioral Science Research Center Cancer Research Center Cardio-Vascular Research Center Cellular and Molecular Biology Research Center Cellular and Molecular Endocrine Research Center Chronic Respiratory Disease Research Center Clinical Tuberculosis and Epidemiology Research Center Dental Research Center Dentofacial Deformities Research Center Endocrinology Research Center Endocrine Physiology Research Center Endodontic Research Center Infectious Diseases and Tropical Medicine Research Center Infertility and Reproductive Health Research Center Laser Application in Medical Sciences Research Center Lung Transplantation Research Center Medical Ethics and Law Research Center Mycobacteriology Research Center Neuroscience Research Center Nutrition And Endocrine Research Center Ophthalmic Research Center Pediatric Congenital Hematologic Disorders Research Center Pediatric Respiratory Disease Research Center Pediatric Surgery Research Center Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center Physical-Therapy Research Center Phytochemistry Research Center Prevention and Treatment of Obesity Research Center Preventive Dentistry Research Center Prevention of Metabolic Diseases Research Center Protein Technology Research Center Proteomics Research Center Reproductive Endocrinology Research Center Research Center for Gastroenterology and Liver Diseases Research Center for Genomics Research Center for Medical Nano-Technology and Tissue Engineering Research Center for Neurosurgery and Functional Nerves Safety Promotion and Injury Prevention Research Center Skin Research Center Skull Base Research Center Social Determinants of Health Research Center Telemedicine Research Center Tobacco Prevention and Control Research Center Toxicological Research Center Tracheal Disease Research Center Traditional Medicine and Materia Medica Research Center Urology and Nephrology Research Center Virology Research Center Pediatric Infectious Diseases Research Center Pediatric Neurology Research CenterUniversity WHO collaborating centers WHOCC for Endocrine & Metabolism Diseases (Research Institute for Endocrine Sciences) WHOCC for Tuberculosis Education (Research Institute for Lung Diseases) WHOCC for Training & Research Dental Public Health (School of Dentistry) WHOCC for the Eye Health and Prevention of Blindness Program (Ophthalmic Research Center) WHOCC on Tobacco Control (Tobacco Prevention and Control Research Center) WHOCC for Research and Training in Nutrition (National Nutrition and Food Technology Research Institute) WHOCC for Educational Development (Educational Development Centre) Programmes Vice-Chancellor in International Affairs The university admits international students in different levels and degrees. Vice-Chancellor in Research Affairs Vice-Chancellor in Academic Affairs Vice-Chancellor in Health Affairs Vice-Chancellor in Treatment Affairs Vice-Chancellor in Food and Drugs Affairs The National Center of Drug and Toxin Information began its mission in 2010. Vice-Chancellor in Student and Cultural Affairs Vice-Chancellor in Administration and Resources Development Affairs SBUMS Vice-Chancellor Office in Administration and Resources Development Affairs is in charge of developing resources for educational, academic, research, health, and treatment needs, including human, financial, physical, and information resources. See also Higher Education in Iran Shahid Beheshti University References External links Official website Iran University of Medical Sciences (IUMS) (Persian: دانشگاه علوم پزشکی و خدمات بهداشتی درمانی ایران, Danushgah-e 'lum-e Pezeshki-ye vâ Xedâmat-e Behedashti-ye Dârmani-ye Iran) is a high ranked medical university in Iran. According to Times Impact Ranking 2019, IUMS has been chosen as 1st university in the nation & 41st in the world, Also 1st in the nation & 55th in 2020. Located in Tehran, it was founded in 1974 under the name The Imperial Medical Center. The school was state operated, and its current reincarnation trains 9,000 students in the medical field. The University operates 11 schools (Medicine, Nursing & Midwifery, Public Health, Health Management and Information Sciences, Mental Health & Behavioral Sciences, Rehabilitation Sciences, Advanced technologies in Medicine, Allied Medical Sciences and Medicine, dentistry and Pharmacy in its International Campus), two centers, two institutes, twenty-nine research centers, seventeen teaching and fifteen non-teaching hospitals in Tehran. Central Library The Central Library and Documentation Center was established simultaneously with the medical center in 1974. Hospitals and educational centers Hazrat-e Rasool General Hospital Hazrat-e Fatemeh Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Hospital Hazrat-e Ali Asghar Pediatrics HospitalShafa Yahyaeian Orthopedics Hospital Shahid Akbar-Abadi Gynecology & Obstetrics Hospital Shahid Motahari Burns Hospital Shahid Hashemi Nejad Urology Hospital Iran Psychiatric Hospital Firoozgar General Hospital Field Hospital Shohadaye Haft-e Tir Hospital Firoozabadi Hospital Lowlagar Hospital Shohadaye Yaft Abad Hospital Shahid Fahmideh Pediatrics Hospital Emam Sajad Hospital (Shahriyar) Hazrat-e Fatemeh Hospital (Robat Karim) Research Centers Iran University of Medical Sciences has different research centers in different fields. The names of Research Centers: Research Institute of Endocrinology & Metabolism, Research Institute for Islamic & Complementary Medicine, Cellular & Molecular Research Center, Razi Drug Research Center, Physiology Research Center, Immunology Research Center, Onco-pathology Research Center, Anti-Microbial Resistance Research Center, Otolaryngology, Head & Neck Surgery Research Center, Iran Eye Research Center, Minimal Invasive Surgery Research Center, Pediatric Infectious Diseases Research Center, Occupational Medicine Research Center, Mental Health Research Center, Gastro intestinal & Liver Diseases Research Center, Rehabilitation Research Center, Center for Nursing Care Research, Occupational Health Research Center, Hospital Management Research Center, Health Management & Economics Research Center, Medical Education Research Center, Rajaie Cardiovascular Medical & Research, Center, Echocardiography Research Center, Heart Valve Diseases Research Center, Cardiac Electrophysiology Research Center, Cardiovascular Interventional Research Center, Colorectal Research Center, Bone & Joint Reconstruction Research Center. See also List of Islamic educational institutions Higher Education in Iran List of universities in Iran List of hospitals in Iran Iran University of Medical Sciences's library management system References External links Official website This is a list of notable hospitals in India. Various medical colleges and medicine related educational institutes also serve as hospitals. For those, refer List of medical colleges in India. For a list of psychiatric hospitals and nursing homes in India refer List of psychiatric hospitals in India. Chain hospitals Various chain or network hospitals operate in various cities of India. These are: Apollo Hospitals Asian Institute of Medical Sciences Aster DM Healthcare Billroth Hospitals Care Hospitals Command Hospital Council of Christian Hospitals Dr. Agarwal's Eye Hospital Dr. Mohan's Diabetes Specialities Centre Fortis Healthcare Global Hospitals Group Hinduja Healthcare Limited Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences L. V. Prasad Eye Institutes LifeSpring Hospitals Max Healthcare Manipal Hospitals Kailash Group of Hospitals Medica Hospitals Metro Group of Hospitals Narayana Health Paras Healthcare Regional Cancer Centre Sahyadri Hospital Shalby Hospital Sir Jamshetjee Jeejebhoy Group of Hospitals Sterling Hospitals Vasan Healthcare Wockhardt Hospitals Andhra Pradesh Anantapuram Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences, Puttaparthi Tirupati Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) Vijayawada Manipal Hospitals Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences L. V. Prasad Eye Institute Siddhartha Medical College, NTR University of Health Sciences Rainbow Hospitals Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre Visakhapatnam Apollo Hospitals, Visakhapatnam Care Hospitals Government ENT Hospital, Visakhapatnam Government Regional Eye Hospital Government TB and Chest Hospital, Visakhapatnam Government Victoria Hospital Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital & Research Centre Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences King George Hospital L. V. Prasad Eye Institute Rainbow Hospitals Rani Chandramani Devi Government Hospital SevenHills Hospital Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences Assam Guwahati Gauhati Medical College and Hospital GNRC Narayana Superspeciality Hospital Apollo Hospitals Dibrugarh Assam Medical College Silchar SMCH – Silchar Medical College and Hospital Jorhat Jorhat Medical College and Hospital Medical Institute Jorhat Tezpur Tezpur Medical College and Hospital Lokopriya Gopinath Bordoloi Regional Institute of Mental Health Diphu Diphu Medical College and Hospital Barpeta Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed Medical College and Hospital Bihar Bhagalpur Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital Darbhanga Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital Mithila Minority Dental College and Hospital Bettiah Government Medical College and MJK Hospital Gaya Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital Katihar Katihar Medical College Muzaffarpur Sri Krishna Medical College Patna AIIMS Patna Ford Hospital and Research Centre Guru Gobind Singh Hospital, Patna Sahib Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) Nalanda Medical College Hospital, Kankarbagh Patna Medical College Hospital, Ashok Raj Patna Sasaram Narayan Medical College and Hospital Chandigarh Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Sector 12 Delhi Gujarat Ahmedabad Ahmedabad Civil Hospital B.J. Medical College, Asarwa GCRI, Ahmedabad Shalby Hospital Amreli Shantabaa Medical College Hospital, Amreli Baroda Baroda Medical College Hospitals at M S University Bhavnagar Government Medical College Hospital Bhavnagar Jamnagar Irwin Group of Hospitals renamed as Guru Gobind Singh Hospital at M. P. Shah Medical College Junagadh GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Junagadh Rajkot All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Rajkot & Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Medical College Hospital, Rajkot Surat Smimer Hospital Nadiad Muljibhai Patel Urological Hospital Haryana Faridabad Asian Institute of Medical Sciences Fortis Escorts Hospital Metro Hospital Gurugram Fortis Memorial Research Institute Manipal Hospitals (formerly known as Columbia Asia) Max Hospital Medanta - The Medicity Narayana Superspeciality Hospital Paras Hospitals Hisar Ganga Ram Hospital Himachal Pradesh Shimla Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla (Snowdown Hospital) Deendayal Upadhyaya Hospital, Shimla (Ripon Hospital) Others Dr. Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College Kangra Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital, Mandi Jharkhand Karnataka Bengaluru Apollo Hospitals Bangalore Medical College Bowring & Lady Curzon Hospitals Bangalore Medical College Columbia Asia, Hebbal Columbia Asia, Yeshwanthpur Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, Bangalore Minto Eye Hospital, Bangalore Medical College Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology Narayana Hrudayalaya, Hosur Road National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Nimhans), Bangalore Rajarajeswari Medical College and Hospital SDS Tuberculosis and Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest diseases Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology, Jayanagar St. Johns Medical College Vanivilas Women and Children Hospital, Bangalore Medical College Victoria Hospital, Bangalore Medical College Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre Whitefield, Bangalore Basaveshwara Teaching and General Hospital, Gulbarga Gulbarga Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology, Sedam road Mysore All India Institute of Speech and Hearing [AIISH], Manasagangotri Krishna Rajendra Hospital Cheluvamba Hospital Narayana Multispeciality Hospital Columbia Asia, Belvadi Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre Mangalore A J Institute of Medical Science Manipal Kasturba Medical College Kerala Alappuzha Government T D Medical College, Alappuzha Kozhikode (Calicut) Government Medical College, Kozhikode Aster MIMS The Cradle Hospital Calicut Chest Hospital Malabar Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) Medical College Hospital Kochi Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences Aster Medcity General Hospital, Ernakulam Indira Gandhi Cooperative Hospital Lakeshore Hospital Lisie Hospital Little Flower Hospital Medical Trust Hospital Rajagiri Hospital Renai medicity Saraf Hospital Sunrise Hospital Kollam Azeezia Medical College, Meeyannoor, Kollam Employee's State Insurance Hospital & Medical College N. S. Memorial Institute of Medical Sciences Travancore Medical College Hospital Kottayam Medical College Hospital, Athirumpuzha St. Thomas Hospital, Chethipuzha, Changanacherry Palakkad Seventh-day Adventist Hospital, Kanniampuram, Ottapalam Thiruvananthapuram Sree Chitra Thirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology Credence Hospital, Ulloor Divya Prabha Eye Hospital Medical College Hospital Regional Cancer Centre Mission Hospital, Pothencode TB Hospital Thrissur Amala Institute of Medical Sciences, Amala Nagar Jubilee Mission Medical College and Research Institute, Thrissur Amala Ayurvedic Hospital and Research Centre, Amala Nagar Madhya Pradesh Bhopal All India Institute of Medical Sciences Bhopal Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal and associated Hamidia Hospital, Kamla Nehru Hospital Indore Maharaja Yeshwantrao Hospital Jabalpur Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College, Jabalpur Gwalior Cancer Hospital & Research Centre Sahara Hospital Maharashtra Aurangabad Hedgewar Hospital MGM Medical College and Hospital, Aurangabad Mumbai Asian Heart Institute, Bandra-Kurla Complex Bhabha Hospital, Bandra Bhaktivedanta Hospital, Mira Road Bombay Hospital, Marine Lines Breach Candy Hospital, Mahalaxmi D Y Patil Hospital, Nerul Cooper Hospital, Vile Parle Gokuldas Tejpal Hospital, Fort Grant Medical College and Sir Jamshedjee Jeejebhoy Group of Hospitals, Sandhurst Road Hinduja Healthcare Surgical, Khar, Mumbai Hinduja Hospital, Mahim, Mumbai Holy Family Hospital, Bandra Hurkisondas Hospital, Girgaon Jaslok Hospital, Pedar Road Lilavati Hospital, Bandra Lokmanya Tilak Hospital, Sion Nanavati Hospital, Vile Parle Prince Aly Khan Hospital, Byculla Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar Saifee Hospital, Charni Road KEM Hospital, Parel Shushrusha Citizens' Co-operative Hospital, Shivaji Park, Mumbai Shushrusha's Suman Ramesh Tulsiani Hospital, Vikhroli, Mumbai Sunrise Hospital, Bhandup Tata Memorial Hospital, Parel Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Parel Nashik Shree Saibaba Heart Institute And Research Centre Pune Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital Hardikar Hospital Jehangir Hospital Joshi Hospital Ruby Hall Clinic Sassoon Hospital Sahyadri Hospital Nagpur Government Medical College and Hospital, Nagpur All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur Indira Gandhi Government Medical College, Nagpur N.K.P. Salve Institute of Medical Sciences Popularly known as Lata Mangeshkar Hospital, Nagpur Wardha Kasturba Hospital, Sewagram Yavatmal Shri Vasantrao Naik Government Medical College Manipur Regional Institute of Medical Sciences Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences Meghalaya North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences Nagaland Odisha Bhubaneswar All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhubaneswar AMRI Hospital Apollo Bhubaneswar KIDS Hospital Hi-Tech Medical College & Hospital Kalinga Institute of Dental Sciences Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences Institute of Medical Sciences and Sum Hospital Balangir Bhima Bhoi Medical College and Hospital Balasore Fakir Mohan Medical College and Hospital Baripada Pandit Raghunath Murmu Medical College and Hospital Berhampur MKCG Medical College and Hospital Cuttack Srirama Chandra Bhanja Medical College and Hospital Keonjhar Dharanidhar Medical College and Hospital Koraput Saheed Laxman Nayak Medical College and Hospital Puri Shri Jagannath Medical College and Hospital Rourkela Hi-Tech Medical College & Hospital Sambalpur Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Sundargarh Government Medical College and Hospital, Sundargarh Rayagada Christian Hospital, Bissam Cuttack Pondicherry Aravind Eye Hospital Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre Mahatma Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute, Pillaiyarkuppam Pondicherry Institute of Medical Sciences, Kalapet Rajiv Gandhi Government Women And Children's Hospital Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research Aarupadai Veedu Medical College Vinayaka Missions Medical College Sri Venkateswara medical College, hospital & Research Centre Punjab Rajasthan Tamil Nadu Chennai Adyar Cancer Institute Apollo Hospitals, Greams Road Balaji Dental and Craniofacial Hospital Billroth Hospitals Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre Fortis Malar Hospital Global Hospitals & Health City Government General Hospital Government Hospital of Thoracic Medicine Government Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine Government multi-super speciality hospital Government Royapettah Hospital Stanley Medical College and Hospital Hindu Mission Hospital Kilpauk Medical College Hospital Madras Medical Mission MIOT Hospital National Institute of Siddha Perambur railway hospital Regional Institute of Ophthalmology and Government Ophthalmic Hospital Sankara Nethralaya Sir Ivan Stedeford Hospital Sri Ramachandra Medical College and Research Institute Sundaram Medical Foundation (SMF Hospital), Anna Nagar Tamil Nadu Government Dental College and Hospital Voluntary Health Services Coimbatore Aravind Eye Hospital Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre PSG Institute of Medical Sciences & Research Sankara Eye Foundation Sri Ramakrishna Hospital Madurai Apollo Hospitals Aravind Eye Hospital Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre Salem Aravind Eye Hospital Vasan Eye Care Hospital Vinayaka Mission Hospital Vellore Sri Narayani Hospital & Research Centre Melvisharam Christian Medical College & Hospital Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, Katpadi Government Vellore Medical College Hospital Vasan Eye Care Hospital Tiruchirappalli Divisional Railway Hospital, Golden Rock Tirunelveli Adiparasakthi Hospital Krishna Hospital Shifa Hospital Nagercoil Catherine Booth Hospital Little Flower Hospital Dr. Jeyasekharan Hospital & Nursing Home Telangana Hyderabad Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences Yashoda Hospitals, Malakpet, Secunderabad, Somajiguda Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, Domalguda & Jubilee Hills Durgabai Deshmukh Hospital, Vidyanagar Fernandez Hospital, Bogulkunta L. V. Prasad Eye Institute LifeSpring Hospitals National Institute of Mentally Handicapped, Newbowenpally Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences, Somajiguda Osmania General Hospital, Afzal Gunj Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital, Mehidipatnam Warangal Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital Nizamabad Government General Hospital, Nizamabad Tripura Tripura Medical College & Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Memorial Teaching Hospital Agartala Government Medical College Uttar Pradesh Agra District Hospital, Agra Aligarh Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (AMU) KK Hospital Ghaziabad Manipal Hospital Max Super Speciality Hospital, Vaishali Kanpur Hallet Hospital Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial Medical College Regency Hospital J L Rohatgi Memorial Eye Hospital Rama Medical College Lucknow Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj Medical University Mayo Hospital Sahara Hospital SGPGI Medanta Hospital Moradabad Teerthanker Mahaveer Medical College & Research Centre Noida Fortis Hospital Jaypee Hospital Kailash Group of Hospitals Max Multi Speciality Centre Metro Hospitals & Heart Institute Prayagraj Kamla Nehru Memorial Hospital Varanasi Sir Sunderlal Hospital (IMS BHU) West Bengal See also Healthcare in India Indian states ranking by institutional delivery Lady Hardinge Medical College is a Central government's medical college & hospital located in New Delhi, India. Established in 1916, it became part of the Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Delhi in 1950. The college is funded by the Government of India. History When the national capital of India was shifted to Delhi, Lady Hardinge, the wife of the then Viceroy of India, Baron Charles Hardinge, decided to establish a medical college for women, as she recognized that the lack of such a college made it impossible for Indian women to study medicine. The foundation stone was laid by Lady Hardinge on 17 March 1914 and the college was named Queen Mary College & Hospital to commemorate the visit by Queen Mary in 1911–12. Lady Hardinge was actively involved in collecting funds for the college from the princely states and the public until her death on 11 July 1914.The college was inaugurated on 7 February 1916 by Baron Hardinge in the Imperial Delhi Enclave area. On the suggestion of Queen Mary, the college and the hospital was named after Lady Hardinge to perpetuate the memory of its founder. The first principal was Kate Platt and the college admitted 16 students. As the college was then affiliated to University of the Punjab, the students had to sit their final examinations at King Edward Medical College in Lahore. The college became affiliated to the University of Delhi in 1950 and post-graduate courses were started in 1954. Ruth Young, who as Ruth Wilson was the first professor of surgery at the college, served as principal from 1936 until 1940. The Kalawati Saran Children's Hospital, one of the two hospitals attached to the Lady Hardinge Medical College, was built in 1956.Initially, the college was an autonomous institution managed by a governing body. In the year 1953, the Board of Administration constituted by the Central Government took formal charge of the management of the institution. In February 1978, the management was taken over by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India under an Act of Parliament. One of the director professors is chosen as the president of the college, the most senior post in the college. Present form The hospital has provided services to male patients since 1991. The admission capacity to the MBBS course is for 200 students. The college has two teaching hospitals, Smt. Sucheta Kriplani Hospital and Kalawati Saran Children's Hospital, with 877 and 350 beds respectively. The college and hospital also provides tertiary level medical facilities to the city. The college's Department of Microbiology is internationally acclaimed for its salmonella phage typing, and it is a World Health Organization collaborating centre for reference and training in streptococcal diseases for South East Asia. It is also a surveillance center for AIDS. The first ART center for children in the country, was also started in LHMC in 2007. Campus The college's campus has a hostel, library, auditorium and laboratories. It also includes a ground for sports and extra co-curricular activities. Library A new central library building is part of the auditorium building. The college's library is one of the oldest medical libraries in India and has also a good collection of number of old journals in the biomedical sciences. The library has a collection of 50,000 volumes. Rankings The college was 9th among medical colleges in India in 2020 by India Today. Departments Department of Physiology Department of Anatomy Department of Biochemistry Department of Pathology Department of Forensic Medicine Department of Pharmacology Department of Microbiology Department of Community Medicine Department of ENT & Head and neck surgery Department of Ophthalmology Department of General Medicine Department of General Surgery Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology Department of Skin & VD Department of Orthopaedics Department of Dental Surgery Department of Pediatrics Department of Paediatric Surgery Department of Neonatology Department of Radiodiagnosis Department of Radiation Medicine Department of Anaesthesia Department of Accident & Emergency Department of Psychiatry Department of Neurology Department of Blood Bank Notable alumni The college's alumni are called Hardonians. Notable alumni of the college include: Sujata Chaudhuri Dr Parvati Gehlot, the first lady doctor of Rajasthan state. Did her MBBS in 1928 and then went for higher studies to England in 1936. Sushila Nayyar, with a postgraduate degree in Public Health from Johns Hopkins. Became Health Minister of India 1952-55 & 1962–67. Shiela Mehra, 1991 Padma Shri recipient. 1959 graduate. Renowned practising Obstetrician & Gynaecologist of New Delhi Usha Kehar Luthra, ICMR Malvika Sabharwal, 2008 Padma Shri Awardee Hemlata Gupta, 1998 Padma Bhushan recipient Zohra Begum Kazi, the first Bengali Muslim female physician, 1935 graduate. She ranked First Class First and was awarded the Viceroy of India's Medal Fatima Shah, 1952 M.B. E. (Member of British Empire); 1969 Tamgha e Pakistan; 1974–79, President, International Federation of the Blind; creator of Urdu Braille References The Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences, formerly Bellary Medical College, is a public medical school located in Ballari district, Karnataka. It is run by the government of Karnataka. History The campus of Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences is situated in the former Allipur Jail Buildings. Indian freedom fighters including Sri. Chakravarthi Rajgopalachary, Sri. V.V. Giri, Sri. Bejawada Gopala Reddy, Sri. Ghantasala Venkateshwara Rao, and Sri. Tekur Subramanya were lodged in this jail. This jail was closed in 1958 and the old buildings and entire area of 173 acres (0.70 km2) was handed over by the Government to start the Medical College in Bellary in 1961. To overcome the shortcomings the Medical College was made autonomous Institution Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences, Bellary in 1996. This medical college has overcome its shortage of staff, due to recruitment of new staff. The Medical College Hospital was commissioned in 1966 and has bed strength of 680 beds. The District Hospital is situated in the heart of city and is spread over an area of 15 acres (61,000 m2) and has bed strength of 210 for the pediatrics, Gyanecology and Post Partum Cases. Recently 20 bedded Infosys ward was added for the treatment of Japanese Encephalitis cases. To bring all departments under one roof, for the purpose of better-coordinated teaching and better treatment to the patients even these two departments of Gynaecology and Paediatrics department will be shifted to VIMS campus before the end of this year to the newly constructed wards in the VIMS campus. Government Wellesly TB & Chest Diseases Hospital was started in 1929 over spacious area of 20 acres (81,000 m2) and has a bed strength of 280 beds. The Urban Health Center in the heart of the City was constructed in 1999 and about 120 to 140 patients are treated as outpatients daily in this center. The Medical Council of India recognized the undergraduate MBBS course with and annual intake of 100 students in 1977. But due to the shortage of staff and other infrastructure facilities threatened to de-recognise the UG MBBS course in 1997 and immediate measures were taken to fill up the vacancies of teaching posts and to construct the buildings and purchase the equipments required by MCI. And so MCI agreed to continue the recognition of UG courses. The post graduate courses started with permission of MCI in 1980 in different subjects and today 32 candidates for degree courses in 15 subjects, 23 candidates for diploma courses in 9 subjects are admitted every year in this institute. MCI has recognized PG courses of following subjects. Total No. of PG Seats Available – 53 Anatomy – 1, Physiology – 1, Pathology – 2, Micro-Biology – 1, Preventive and Social Medicine – 1, Anaesthesia – 2, Skin & STD – 1, Paediatrics – 2, Medicine – 5, Ophthalmology – 1, ENT – 4, General Surgery – 7, OBG – 3, Radiology – 2 .In the following 7 subjects, the appointment of staff and purchases of the equipments to fulfill the MCI norms are made and MCI has been already requested to inspect these departments and consider for PG courses recognition in these subjects. The 7 subjects are (1) Ophthalmology (2) Skin & STD (3) Anaesthesiology (4) Pharmacology (5) Pathology (6) Paediatrics (7) Orthopaedics. In the remaining subjects the efforts are being made to develop infrastructures and invite the MCI for PG course recognition. The Super specialty departments like Urology, Plastic Surgery, Paediatric Surgery and Neurosurgery are functioning and they are well equipped with modern equipments for the treatments and operations of the patients. This Institute also offers M.Ch in Urology courses. The Institute is affiliated to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Bangalore and it is to be mentioned that in all the University examinations more than 80% of the students have passed in the last many years. One student of this college got 15th rank in All India PG entrance examination. All the needy students both men, women are provided hostels and have the separate working women hostel. This Institute runs its own nursing school for diploma nursing studies with annual admission of 30 students and also 8 school of nursing and two college of nursing private nursing institutes are availing the clinical facilities of different hospital of this institute. General Nurse Midwife (GNM) Course : School of nursing started in 1963 with intake of 12 students. Up to 1995, it was a 3-year, 9 month midwifery course. later it changed course as a 3yrs in 1996-2004. In 2005 curriculum has changed and the duration of course 3 years and internship 6 months under the guidance of Indian Nursing Council and Karnataka State Nursing Council. It is stipendiary course, each student get after submission of bond paper as per 1957 Note 2 Para G Rule 7 they receive Rs.1000/- per month for 3yrs 6 month. Basic B.Sc Nursing (B.Sc Nsg) : It is started in 2008 with an intake of 20 students and in the next academic year 2009-10 the intake of student is 25. It is running successfully and first batch students has got 100% results out of which one distinction, 16 first class and 3 second class. Also courses of different para clinical subjects are conducted in this institution and 60 students are admitted every year. Recent developments B.Devanand who was appointed as a regular Director of VIMS for a period of three years, was the brain child of the recent construction and developmental drive in the Institution. Department of community medicine spearheading the creation of awareness in the public especially awareness on healthcare facilities. References External links Institute's Official Website CET Karnataka Kathmandu University School of Medical Sciences (KUSMS) is one of the nine schools of Kathmandu University running medical, nursing and allied health science program. KUSMS is a collaborative program of Kathmandu University and Dhulikhel Hospital. The main office of KUSMS is on the premises of Dhulikhel Hospital, a Kathmandu University hospital, in Kavrepalanchok District, Nepal. KUSMS was set up in 1994. Manipal College of Medical Sciences in Pokhara was the first medical college to be granted affiliation. Since then, KUSMS has granted affiliation to several medical colleges around the country. KUSMS formally started its own medical training program, the MBBS program, on 7 September 2001 in association with Dhulikhel Hospital. The first class was 43 Nepali students. The day is annually celebrated as KUSMS Day. Although the medical school is still widely known as KUMS, inside and outside the country, its name was changed to Kathmandu University School of Medical Sciences (KUSMS) in 2006, in view of the fact that it not only trains medical undergraduates and postgraduates, but also runs nursing and allied health science programs. In 2018, the total tuition for the MBBS degree was Rs. 3.7 million (US$31,672) making the school one of the cheapest institutions to get a degree. Aims and objectives The school is a non-profit organization with a motto of producing technically competent and socially responsible doctors and other medical and nursing professionals. The main focus of the organization is to contribute in improving the overall health status of Nepal. Courses KUSMS runs the following programs: MBBS Bachelor of Dental Surgery BSc Human Biology BSc. Nursing (four years) BSc. Nursing in Midwifery Bachelor of Nursing Sciences (BNS)- Three and half years course Bachelor of Physiotherapy (BPT) – Four and half years course Certificate in Nursing under Dhulikhel Medical Institute Postgraduate program in basic and clinical sciences DM and MCh program in Cardiology, Neurology, Nephrology, Cardiothoracic and Neurosurgery in affiliated college.The duration of the MBBS program is five and a half years of medical education. This includes one year of clinical internship. The first two years consists of learning basic science courses, where special emphasis is laid on problem-based and community-oriented learning. In the ensuing two and a half years, the medical students are taught and trained in clinical disciples. The students complete a year of clinical internship in clinical departments as well as in remote outreach health centers before the final medical diploma is issued by the university. Administration Vice Chancellor: Prof. Dr. Bhola Thapa Dean: Prof. Dr. Rajendra Koju Associate Dean C.P. : Dr. Ramesh Makaju Chief Administrative Officer/Administrative Director (DH): Dr. Ramesh Makaju Associate Dean Affiliation and External P.G. Program: Dr. Dipak Shrestha Hospital Administration: Pradhumna Deoju Shrestha Manager- School Administration: Deepak Dahal Colleges granted affiliation by KUSMS to run MBBS courses Manipal College of Medical Sciences, Pokhara Kathmandu Medical College, Kathmandu Nepal Medical College, Kathmandu Nepalgunj Medical College, Nepalgunj, Kohalpur, Chisapani College of Medical Sciences, Bharatpur 10 Nobel Medical College, Biratnagar Lumbini Medical College, Palpa Birat medical college, Biratnagar Devdaha medical college, Bhairhawa College granted affiliation by KUSMS to run BDS courses Kantipur Dental College, Kathmandu Nobel Medical College, Biratnagar Nepal Medical College, Kathmandu Kathmandu Medical College, Kathmandu College of Medical Sciences, Bharatpur Colleges granted affiliation by KUSMS to run BSc. Nursing courses Scheer Memorial Hospital, College of Nursing, Banepa Kathmandu Medical College, Kathmandu Manipal College of Medical Sciences, Pokhara College of Medical Sciences, Bharatpur Nobel Medical College, Biratnagar tinpaini, morang Lumbini Medical College, Palpa Birat Medical College, Biratnagar Recent developments On the central campus run as KUSMS/DH Collaboration, the 13 batch of MBBS students have graduated from the medical school and the 14th batch is on internship. The 18th batch of students joined the medical school (October 2018). The students of the 15th batch are on final year of the course and waiting for final exam to appear, while the 16th have completed the basic science university examination. Similarly from BDS, 3rd batch students have graduated and 4th batch is on internship. Criticism and Controversies Medical education in Nepal is highly controversial as many qualified students are turned away in lieu of competitive marks. Corruption is rampant with schools accepting students based on connections to established figures or illicit donations made to the school. The hidden tuition, as it's referred, is the additional cost of bribing officials in the education and healthy ministry with some students paying triple the tuition fees for enrollment.Dr. Govinda KC is a staunch supporter of medical education reform in Nepal and has long advocated to break the education mafia present in the system. See also Kathmandu University Dhulikhel Hospital References External links The official website All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bibinagar (AIIMS Bibinagar) is a public medical college and hospital located in Bibinagar, Hyderabad Metropolitan Region. It is one of the six All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMSs) that started operation in 2019. History The All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMSs) are set up as part of the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) initiative, announced by the Government of India in 2003 and officially launched in March 2006, for the purpose of correcting regional imbalances in the availability of affordable/reliable tertiary healthcare services, through setting up AIIMS Delhi-like institutions and upgrading government medical colleges.As an outcome of the Bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh and the creation of Telangana in June 2014, the central government was mandated through the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014 to create an AIIMS in Andhra Pradesh, which was to become All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Mangalagiri in 2018. While the act does not mention an AIIMS in Telangana, the central government has assured the government of Telangana in 2014 that it will consider such an institute in Telangana as well. As early as July 2014, the government of Telangana has toyed with the idea of offering the yet-to-be-operational Bibinagar, YBG Dist campus of Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) for establishing said AIIMS, a decision which was announced in January 2015. In September 2016 a contradictory announcement was made, stating that the AIIMS was to be established at Bhongir instead, due to higher availability of land.In February 2017, in the budget presentation for 2017–2018, the Minister of Finance Arun Jaitley announced two AIIMSs, in Jharkhand and Gujarat, but an institute in Telangana was not mentioned. A week later, Jaitley rectified this and officially announced at the parliament that an AIIMS will be set in Telangana as well. In April 2018, the central government has given an in-principle approval for the institute and the state government was asked to identify three of four possible locations for the AIIMS. The state government offered the Bibinagar campus, and following an inspection visit the location was approved in July, under conditions that an additional 49-acre of land will be acquired and that some infrastructure improvements are made. Finally, the official approval by the union cabinet was made on 17 December 2018 at an estimated cost of ₹1,028 crore (US$130 million). The institute was later denoted as Phase-VII of PMSSY.The land for the AIIMS was officially handed over to the central government in February 2019 and in May it was announced that classes will start in August, from the Bibinagar campus. The institute became operational with the first batch of 50 MBBS students, which started in August 2019, one of the six AIIMSs to become operational in 2019. AIIMS Bhopal was set as the mentoring institution, and its director, Sarman Singh, also acting as director in charge. In December 2019 the mentoring institution changed to Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (JIPMER). Vikas Bhatia was appointed as director in March 2020. Campus and hospital AIIMS occupies the former Bibinagar campus of Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), which as of December 2019, is under construction. Outpatient services (OP) was expected to start in December 2019, with inpatient services in March 2020. However, due to the change of mentorship, OP opening was postponed to February 2020, a date which was also missed. The hospital is expected to be fully operational in September 2022. See also List of medical colleges in India References External links Official website Pondicherry University, also known as PU, (French: Université de Pondichéry) is a central research university located in Kalapet, Pondicherry in Union Territory of Puducherry, India. It was established by an Act of Parliament in 1985 by the Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education, Government of India. The Vice President of India is the Chancellor along with the Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry acting as the Chief Rector and the President of India is the Visitor of the university. The university is a collegiate university with its jurisdiction spread over the Union Territory of Puducherry located in Tamil Nadu (Pondicherry and Karaikal), Kerala (Mahé) and Andhra Pradesh (Yanam), and Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The vast jurisdiction over three Union Territories namely gives the university a national character. The residents speak diverse languages such as English, Tamil, French, Telugu, Malayalam, Hindi, Bengali, Oriya, assamese, and Kannada. Local skill sets are advanced through several vocational programs such as paramedical courses using the on-site hospital facilities. Campus Pondicherry University is located on a campus spread over around 1,000 acres (400 ha), facing the Bay of Bengal on the East Coast Road. It is accessible from Chennai (168 km [104 mi]) and Bengaluru (326 km [203 mi]). Hostel facilities are available on the campus for both males and females. Students from distant places will be given preference on a first-come, first-served basis. The university has a hostel for foreign students that can accommodate more than 30 students. Girls are given rent-free accommodation. All physically challenged students get free education, including free board and lodging in hostels. The university provides free transport off campus and within campus. The university which was in B grade for 20 years, in 2007–2012, when Prof. J. A. K. Tareen was vice chancellor. Over 300 new faculty and 22 new departments were started and new campuses at Karaikal and Andaman. It became an A grade, and in the first NIRF ranking, it came in the top 11 of Indian universities. Organisation and administration Schools, departments and centres The entire academic structure was reorganized during the tenure of Prof J. A. K. Tareen, who established over 20 new departments and new schools with over 80 new programs. The university has 14 schools and 52 departments distributed across Pondicherry and Karaikal campus. The following is the list of the schools, departments and centres: Subramania Bharathi School of Tamil Language and Literature Tamil Language & Literature School of Management Department of Management Studies Department of Commerce Department of Economics Department of Tourism Studies Department of Banking Technology Department of International BusinessKaraikal Campus Department of Management Department of Commerce Department of Computer Science Ramanujan School of Mathematical Sciences Department of Mathematics Department of Statistics School of Engineering & Technology Computer Science Electronics Engineering Centre for Pollution Control & Environmental Engineering Coastal Engineering Geological Technology School of Physical, Chemical and Applied Sciences Department of Physics Department of Chemistry Department of Earth Sciences Department of Applied Psychology Department of Coastal Disaster Management (Port Blair) School of Life Sciences Department of Bioinformatics Department of Biotechnology Department of Ecology & Environmental Sciences Department of Ocean Studies and Marine Biology (Port Blair) Department of Food Science & Technology Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Department of Microbiology School of Humanities English and comparative literature French Hindi Sanskrit Philosophy Physical Education & Sports School of Social Sciences and International Studies Anthropology Archaeology History Politics and International Studies Social Work Sociology Centre for Women's Studies Madanjeet Singh Institute of South Asia Regional Cooperation - Centre for South Asian Studies* Centre for Study of Social Exclusion & Inclusive Policy*These centres were established during XII plan when Prof J A K Tareen was vice chancellor. School of Education School of Education Centre for Adult and Continuing Education School of Law School of Medical Sciences School of Media & Communication Library & Information Science Department of Electronic Media and Mass Communication Madanjeet School of Green Energy Technologies Centre for Nano Science & Technology Department of Green Energy Technology List of affiliated colleges Central Instrumentation Facility The Central Instrumentation Facility (CIF) was established in the university as the University Science Instrumentation Centre (USIC) in 1992 under the UGC Plan Scheme. It housed three facilities – Mechanical Shop, Glass blowing Shop and Electrical Shop, to provide support in the repair and servicing of scientific equipment. Fabrication of components for experimental setups is undertaken. The USIC has executed design, development and fabrication works ranging from custom designed sample holders/cells to electronic instrumentation and control modules. In 2005, the centre was reorganised into Central Instrumentation Facility under the School of Physical, Chemical and Applied Sciences and analytical instruments are added to provide analytical service, in addition to the workshop facilities. Academics Function and role Teaching and research are its primary functions as in other Central Universities. It has 200 affiliated colleges located in Union Territory of Puducherry (Pondicherry in Tamil Nadu, Karaikal in Tamil Nadu, Mahé in Kerala and Yanam in Andhra Pradesh), Union Territory of Lakshadweep, Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Rankings Pondicherry University is ranked 1,001–1,200 in the world by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings of 2023 and 251–300 in Asia. The QS World University Rankings of 2023 ranked it ranked it 800–1,000 in worldwide and 351–400 in Asia. It was ranked 101–151 in India overall by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) in 2022 and 68th among universities. Library The university library, named after Ananda Ranga Pillai, was established in September 1986 with one deputy librarian and two assistant librarians. It was moved to the present locale as an independent building in July 1990. The library is renowned for its disabled friendly modern infrastructure (80,000 sq. ft), fully air-conditioned, Wi-Fi enabled, services for the visually challenged, among the proactive services with RFID technology and 24/7 remote access to a collection of 4.97 lakhs, of which print is 2.22 and 2.7 lakhs of e-resources. Clubs and extracurricular activities PU SHARE PU SHARE is a community initiated by a group of students from Pondicherry University to share goodness through charity, on and around the university campus. This organization has been active in volunteering for social causes since 2016. Their major aim is to uplift the children at Snehalayam (a standalone orphanage near the Pondicherry University campus) by helping them in academics as well as their necessities. A few other programmes organised by them include the monthly food donation drive every month of the academic year, blood donation at nearby hospitals and free tuition classes for kids at the orphanage. INSPIRE is the annual event that aims at promotion as well as fundraising for PU SHARE activities. SPECTRA SPECTRA provides a space for LGBTQIA+ students to share and discuss their experiences. SPECTRA was founded on 15 August 2014 and has been conducting events ever since. One of the first Campus Pride events in India was organized successfully in 2018 at Pondicherry University by SPECTRA. Earth Sciences Club The Earth Sciences Club was founded in September 2013. It conducts field trips, screens documentaries, organize debates, quizzes, treasure hunts, and others. It is also involved with organising the annual event Mrittika in the Department of Earth Sciences. Pondicherry University Quiz Society The students started the Pondicherry University Quiz Society (PUQS) in June 2012. The inauguration of PUQS was held on 1 August 2011 in Pondicherry University/Lecture Hall Seminar-I. The event was inaugurated by the Director of Education of Pondicherry University, Prof. M. Ramadass. The first quizmaster of the show was Nikhil Kurien Jacob. The tagline of the Quiz Society is It's all about Quizzing. Community radio station Puduvai Vaani, the community radio station (CRS) established by Pondicherry University with the support of UGC located in National Capital Territory of Delhi, India. It works under FM 107.8 MHz a frequency, which is currently extended to a catchments area of 20 km (12 mi) radius from the university campus. The test transmission of Puduvai Vaani – Community Radio Station was started on 23 August 2008. This was an initiative by Prof. J. A. K. Tareen. It was inaugurated by Shri V. Narayanasamy, Hon’ble Union Minister of State for Planning & Parliamentary Affairs on 27 December 2008 in the presence of Shri P.Chidambaram, Hon’ble Union Home Minister. The full-time transmission started on 1 January 2009. Silver Jubilee celebrations The valedictory of the Silver Jubilee celebrations of Pondicherry University was held on 18 October 2010. Dr. C Rangarajan, Chairman of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister of India, delivered the keynote address. Lieutenant governor of Puducherry, Iqbal Singh, who was the Chief Rector of the university, was present at the function. Professor J. A. K. Tareen, Vice Chancellor presided over the function. Notable alumni Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, Former Home Minister of Kerala N. Rangaswamy, 9th Chief Minister of Puducherry Jayanthasri Balakrishnan, public speaker and retired professor Elango Kumaravel, actor Kesava Reddy, writer Durai Sundar, Indian Computational Biologist Lijomol Jose, Indian Actress Jijoy Rajagopal, actor Ma Ka Pa Anand, actor Annu Antony, actress Arulnithi, actor Fathima Babu, actress Rona Wilson, activist Ragy Thomas, CEO of Sprinklr Majiziya Bhanu, Indian Body Builder & Dental Surgeon Pondy Ravi, actor Sushrut Badhe, author & Researcher Pramod Payyannur, Malayalam Director and Writer Ramesh Parambath, Member of Puducherry Legislative Assembly Murugabhoopathy, playwright J. Prakash Kumar, Member of Puducherry Legislative Assembly Vaseem Iqbal, PhD holder R. B. Ashok Babu, Member of Puducherry Legislative Assembly Suresh Selvarajan, Indian Production Designer In popular culture '96 (film) Swapnakoodu Ivar Vivahitharayal Ko See also Puducherry Technological University National Institute of Technology Puducherry Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research References External links Official website The Shiba Inu (柴犬, Shiba Inu, Japanese: [ɕiba inɯ]) is a breed of hunting dog from Japan. A small-to-medium breed, it is the smallest of the six original breed of dogs native to Japan. Its name literally translates to brushwood dog, as it is used to flush game. A small, alert, and agile dog that copes very well with mountainous terrain and hiking trails, the Shiba Inu was originally bred for hunting. It looks similar to other Japanese dog breeds such as the Akita Inu or Hokkaido, but the Shiba Inu is a different breed with a distinct bloodline, temperament, and smaller size than other Japanese dog breeds. Appearance The Shiba's frame is compact with well-developed muscles.The Shiba Inu is double coated, with the outer coat being stiff and straight and the undercoat soft and thick. Fur is short and even on the foxlike face, ears, and legs. Guard hairs stand off the body and are about 4 to 5 cm (1+1⁄2 to 2 in) long at the withers. The purpose of the guard hairs is to protect their underlying skin and to repel rain or snow. Tail hair is slightly longer and stands open in a brush. Their tails are a defining characteristic and make them stand apart from other dog breeds. The cream color is considered a major fault by both the Japan Kennel Club and American Kennel Club. It should never be intentionally bred in a show dog, as the required markings known as urajiro (裏白) are not visible; Urajiro literally translates to underside white. Conversely, a white (cream) coat is perfectly acceptable according to the British Kennel Club breed standard.The urajiro (cream to white ventral color) is required in the following areas on all coat colors: on the sides of the muzzle, on the cheeks, inside the ears, on the underjaw and upper throat inside of legs, on the abdomen, around the vent and the ventral side of the tail. On reds: commonly on the throat, fore chest, and chest. On blacks and sesames: commonly as a triangular mark on both sides of the fore chest. Temperament The Shiba Inu is considered an alert, affectionate, and independent breed with high intelligence but also somewhat stubborn and strong-willed.The terms spirited boldness (悍威, kan'i), good nature (良性, ryōsei), and artlessness (素朴, soboku) have subtle interpretations that have been the subject of much commentary.A survey of experts classified the Shiba Inu as having 'high aggression, high reactivity and medium trainability'. A possible explanation for this and other observed behaviour is that the Shiba Inu is more closely related to the wolf than domesticated dogs from other countries. Due to the high intelligence of the breed it requires a lot of exercise and stimulation. Insufficient exercise can lead to anxiety which leads to undesirable behaviours notably the 'shiba scream'.A survey in Japan found the Shiba Inu to be more likely to engage in destructive behaviour, refusal to walk whilst on a lead, engage in mounting behaviour, and tail chasing. The Shiba Inu was also found to be less likely to bark at noises whilst inside the house. History The Shiba Inu has been identified as a basal breed that predates the emergence of the modern breeds in the 19th century. Dogs with a similar appearance to the Shiba Inu were represented in dogū made during the prehistoric Jōmon period of Japanese history.The Shiba Inu was bred to hunt and flush small game, such as birds and rabbits. Shiba lived in the mountainous areas of the Chūbu region. During the Meiji Restoration, western dog breeds were imported and crosses between these and native Japanese breeds became popular. From 1912 to 1926, almost no pure Shiba remained. From around 1928, hunters and intellectuals began to show interest in the protection of the remaining pure Shiba.Despite efforts to preserve the breed, the Shiba nearly became extinct during World War II due to a combination of food shortage and a post-war distemper epidemic. All subsequent dogs were bred from the only three surviving bloodlines. These bloodlines were the Shinshu Shiba from Nagano Prefecture, the Mino Shiba from the former Mino Province in the south of present-day Gifu Prefecture, and the San'in Shiba from Tottori and Shimane Prefectures.The Shinshu Shibas possessed a solid undercoat, with a dense layer of guard-hairs, and were small and red in color. The Mino Shibas tended to have thick, prick ears, and possessed a sickle tail, rather than the common curled tail found on most modern Shibas. The San'in Shibas were larger than most modern shibas, and tended to be black, without the common tan and white accents found on modern black-and-tan shibas.When the study of Japanese dogs was formalized in the early and mid-20th century, these three strains were combined into one overall breed, the Shiba Inu. The first Japanese breed standard for the Shiba, the Nippo Standard, was published in 1934. In December 1936, the Shiba Inu was recognized as a Natural Monument of Japan through the Cultural Properties Act, largely due to the efforts of Nippo (Nihon Ken Hozonkai), the Association for the Preservation of the Japanese Dog.In 1954, an armed service family brought the first Shiba Inu to the United States. In 1979, the first recorded litter was born in the United States. The Shiba was recognized by the American Kennel Club in 1992 and added to the AKC Non-Sporting Group in 1993. It is now primarily kept as a pet both in Japan and abroad. According to the American Kennel Club, the Shiba Inu is the number one companion dog in Japan. In the United States the breed ranked 44th place in registrations for 2016 with the American Kennel Club. Health A study in Japan on patella luxation in small breeds found the Shiba Inu to have the second highest rate of the condition, with 35% of the Shiba Inus surveyed being affected. Three genes belonging to the breed were associated with glaucoma were found in an analysis of DNA sequencing. Another study from Japan reviewing cases of dogs presented for ophthalmologic examination found the Shiba Inu to make up 33% of all glaucoma cases whilst only making up 2.7% of the total population used in the study.Pyometra a uterine infection of intact bitches is slightly more common in the Shiba Inu. The Shiba Inu is predisposed to canine atopic dermatitis. An auto-immune disease common in Akitas Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada-like syndrome is known to occur in the Shiba Inu. Life span A review of cemetery data in Japan found that the Shiba Inu had a life expectancy of 15 and a half years, greater than any other breed. In popular culture Despite not being a popular dog breed outside of Japan, the Shiba Inu has become popular on the Internet. Doge is an Internet meme from 2013 including a Shiba Inu and broken English. A popular cryptocurrency, Dogecoin, is named after this meme and its logo bears an image of the Shiba Inu. The breed is often referred to as Shibe in memes. According to Jamie Cohen, an assistant professor of media studies at Queens College of the City University of New York, the Shiba Inu breed has had a significant presence in online culture since at least 2010.Another Shiba Inu dog that went viral was a dog known as 'Cheems'. He had gone viral during the COVID-19 pandemic and had gained worldwide attention. Cheems died during cancer surgery on August 18, 2023 at the age of 12½ years. See also List of dog breeds Japan Kennel Club Mameshiba Nihon Ken Hozonkai Shiba Inu Puppy Cam Cheems References External links Shiba Inu at Curlie Dr B C Roy Institute of Medical Sciences & Research (also the hospital which a part of the institution is known as Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee Super Speciality Hospital) is a medical school and research institute at Balarampur, outside IIT Kharagpur campus, Paschim Medinipur district, West Bengal, India. It will start with a 400-bed multi-speciality hospital with specialities like Cardiac, Neurosurgery, Organ Transplantation, Oncology, Trauma and others. Beside this, it will be equipted with state-of-the art research facilities like Telemedicine, Tissue engineering, Bioelectronics etc. and expand to 750 bed capacity later. It is proposed to start with 50 undergraduate medical seats. The institute is supposed to be functional by end of 2018. The various research, academic and medical infrastructure planning is being jointly carried out by IIT Kharagpur and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. As per IIT Kharagpur, in the phase – I, the 400-Bed Super-Speciality hospital will be begin its journey by end of 2019. The graduate and postgraduate medical courses are expected to start in the academic year 2021–22.As per the institute, 10% of the beds would be free and 65% of the beds would be charged as per the rates in the central and state health insurance schemes. Plans are also in place to expand and include a nursing college and a school to train paramedical and technical experts.During the COVID-19 lockdown in India, unoccupied hospital building served as the quarantine center for the inter-state travelers returning to West Bengal.On 71st foundation day of IIT Kharagpur, Amit Khare, the Secretary, Ministry of Education in Government of India, declared that the medical courses will start from November 2021.As of 2022, the hospital has 160 general beds, 90 ICU beds and 10 child crib carriers, out of which 44 ICU beds were donated by Arjun Malhotra. See also List of institutions of higher education in West Bengal School of Medical Science and Technology IIT Kharagpur References External links Official YouTube Video Media related to Dr B C Roy Institute of Medical Sciences & Research at Wikimedia Commons Biomedical engineering (BME) or medical engineering is the application of engineering principles and design concepts to medicine and biology for healthcare applications (e.g., diagnostic or therapeutic purposes). BME is also traditionally logical sciences to advance health care treatment, including diagnosis, monitoring, and therapy. Also included under the scope of a biomedical engineer is the management of current medical equipment in hospitals while adhering to relevant industry standards. This involves procurement, routine testing, preventive maintenance, and making equipment recommendations, a role also known as a Biomedical Equipment Technician (BMET) or as a clinical engineer. Biomedical engineering has recently emerged as its own field of study, as compared to many other engineering fields. Such an evolution is common as a new field transitions from being an interdisciplinary specialization among already-established fields to being considered a field in itself. Much of the work in biomedical engineering consists of research and development, spanning a broad array of subfields (see below). Prominent biomedical engineering applications include the development of biocompatible prostheses, various diagnostic and therapeutic medical devices ranging from clinical equipment to micro-implants, imaging technologies such as MRI and EKG/ECG, regenerative tissue growth, and the development of pharmaceutical drugs including biopharmaceuticals. Subfields and related fields Bioinformatics Bioinformatics is an interdisciplinary field that develops methods and software tools for understanding biological data. As an interdisciplinary field of science, bioinformatics combines computer science, statistics, mathematics, and engineering to analyze and interpret biological data. Bioinformatics is considered both an umbrella term for the body of biological studies that use computer programming as part of their methodology, as well as a reference to specific analysis pipelines that are repeatedly used, particularly in the field of genomics. Common uses of bioinformatics include the identification of candidate genes and nucleotides (SNPs). Often, such identification is made with the aim of better understanding the genetic basis of disease, unique adaptations, desirable properties (esp. in agricultural species), or differences between populations. In a less formal way, bioinformatics also tries to understand the organizational principles within nucleic acid and protein sequences. Biomechanics Biomechanics is the study of the structure and function of the mechanical aspects of biological systems, at any level from whole organisms to organs, cells and cell organelles, using the methods of mechanics. Biomaterials A biomaterial is any matter, surface, or construct that interacts with living systems. As a science, biomaterials is about fifty years old. The study of biomaterials is called biomaterials science or biomaterials engineering. It has experienced steady and strong growth over its history, with many companies investing large amounts of money into the development of new products. Biomaterials science encompasses elements of medicine, biology, chemistry, tissue engineering and materials science. Biomedical optics Biomedical optics combines the principles of physics, engineering, and biology to study the interaction of biological tissue and light, and how this can be exploited for sensing, imaging, and treatment. It has a wide range of applications, including optical imaging, microscopy, ophthalmoscopy, spectroscopy, and therapy. Examples of biomedical optics techniques and technologies include optical coherence tomography (OCT), fluorescence microscopy, confocal microscopy, and photodynamic therapy (PDT). OCT, for example, uses light to create high-resolution, three-dimensional images of internal structures, such as the retina in the eye or the coronary arteries in the heart. Fluorescence microscopy involves labeling specific molecules with fluorescent dyes and visualizing them using light, providing insights into biological processes and disease mechanisms. More recently, adaptive optics is helping imaging by correcting aberrations in biological tissue, enabling higher resolution imaging and improved accuracy in procedures such as laser surgery and retinal imaging. Tissue engineering Tissue engineering, like genetic engineering (see below), is a major segment of biotechnology – which overlaps significantly with BME. One of the goals of tissue engineering is to create artificial organs (via biological material) for patients that need organ transplants. Biomedical engineers are currently researching methods of creating such organs. Researchers have grown solid jawbones and tracheas from human stem cells towards this end. Several artificial urinary bladders have been grown in laboratories and transplanted successfully into human patients. Bioartificial organs, which use both synthetic and biological component, are also a focus area in research, such as with hepatic assist devices that use liver cells within an artificial bioreactor construct. Genetic engineering Genetic engineering, recombinant DNA technology, genetic modification/manipulation (GM) and gene splicing are terms that apply to the direct manipulation of an organism's genes. Unlike traditional breeding, an indirect method of genetic manipulation, genetic engineering utilizes modern tools such as molecular cloning and transformation to directly alter the structure and characteristics of target genes. Genetic engineering techniques have found success in numerous applications. Some examples include the improvement of crop technology (not a medical application, but see biological systems engineering), the manufacture of synthetic human insulin through the use of modified bacteria, the manufacture of erythropoietin in hamster ovary cells, and the production of new types of experimental mice such as the oncomouse (cancer mouse) for research. Neural engineering Neural engineering (also known as neuroengineering) is a discipline that uses engineering techniques to understand, repair, replace, or enhance neural systems. Neural engineers are uniquely qualified to solve design problems at the interface of living neural tissue and non-living constructs. Pharmaceutical engineering Pharmaceutical engineering is an interdisciplinary science that includes drug engineering, novel drug delivery and targeting, pharmaceutical technology, unit operations of Chemical Engineering, and Pharmaceutical Analysis. It may be deemed as a part of pharmacy due to its focus on the use of technology on chemical agents in providing better medicinal treatment. Hospital and medical devices This is an extremely broad category—essentially covering all health care products that do not achieve their intended results through predominantly chemical (e.g., pharmaceuticals) or biological (e.g., vaccines) means, and do not involve metabolism. A medical device is intended for use in: the diagnosis of disease or other conditions in the cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease.Some examples include pacemakers, infusion pumps, the heart-lung machine, dialysis machines, artificial organs, implants, artificial limbs, corrective lenses, cochlear implants, ocular prosthetics, facial prosthetics, somato prosthetics, and dental implants. Stereolithography is a practical example of medical modeling being used to create physical objects. Beyond modeling organs and the human body, emerging engineering techniques are also currently used in the research and development of new devices for innovative therapies, treatments, patient monitoring, of complex diseases. Medical devices are regulated and classified (in the US) as follows (see also Regulation): Class I devices present minimal potential for harm to the user and are often simpler in design than Class II or Class III devices. Devices in this category include tongue depressors, bedpans, elastic bandages, examination gloves, and hand-held surgical instruments, and other similar types of common equipment. Class II devices are subject to special controls in addition to the general controls of Class I devices. Special controls may include special labeling requirements, mandatory performance standards, and postmarket surveillance. Devices in this class are typically non-invasive and include X-ray machines, PACS, powered wheelchairs, infusion pumps, and surgical drapes. Class III devices generally require premarket approval (PMA) or premarket notification (510k), a scientific review to ensure the device's safety and effectiveness, in addition to the general controls of Class I. Examples include replacement heart valves, hip and knee joint implants, silicone gel-filled breast implants, implanted cerebellar stimulators, implantable pacemaker pulse generators and endosseous (intra-bone) implants. Medical imaging Medical/biomedical imaging is a major segment of medical devices. This area deals with enabling clinicians to directly or indirectly view things not visible in plain sight (such as due to their size, and/or location). This can involve utilizing ultrasound, magnetism, UV, radiology, and other means. Alternatively, navigation-guided equipment utilizes electromagnetic tracking technology, such as catheter placement into the brain or feeding tube placement systems. For example, ENvizion Medical's ENvue, an electromagnetic navigation system for enteral feeding tube placement. The system uses an external field generator and several EM passive sensors enabling scaling of the display to the patient's body contour, and a real-time view of the feeding tube tip location and direction, which helps the medical staff ensure the correct placement in the GI tract. Imaging technologies are often essential to medical diagnosis, and are typically the most complex equipment found in a hospital including: fluoroscopy, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), nuclear medicine, positron emission tomography (PET), PET-CT scans, projection radiography such as X-rays and CT scans, tomography, ultrasound, optical microscopy, and electron microscopy. Medical implants An implant is a kind of medical device made to replace and act as a missing biological structure (as compared with a transplant, which indicates transplanted biomedical tissue). The surface of implants that contact the body might be made of a biomedical material such as titanium, silicone or apatite depending on what is the most functional. In some cases, implants contain electronics, e.g. artificial pacemakers and cochlear implants. Some implants are bioactive, such as subcutaneous drug delivery devices in the form of implantable pills or drug-eluting stents. Bionics Artificial body part replacements are one of the many applications of bionics. Concerned with the intricate and thorough study of the properties and function of human body systems, bionics may be applied to solve some engineering problems. Careful study of the different functions and processes of the eyes, ears, and other organs paved the way for improved cameras, television, radio transmitters and receivers, and many other tools. Biomedical sensors In recent years biomedical sensors based in microwave technology have gained more attention. Different sensors can be manufactured for specific uses in both diagnosing and monitoring disease conditions, for example microwave sensors can be used as a complementary technique to X-ray to monitor lower extremity trauma. The sensor monitor the dielectric properties and can thus notice change in tissue (bone, muscle, fat etc.) under the skin so when measuring at different times during the healing process the response from the sensor will change as the trauma heals. Clinical engineering Clinical engineering is the branch of biomedical engineering dealing with the actual implementation of medical equipment and technologies in hospitals or other clinical settings. Major roles of clinical engineers include training and supervising biomedical equipment technicians (BMETs), selecting technological products/services and logistically managing their implementation, working with governmental regulators on inspections/audits, and serving as technological consultants for other hospital staff (e.g. physicians, administrators, I.T., etc.). Clinical engineers also advise and collaborate with medical device producers regarding prospective design improvements based on clinical experiences, as well as monitor the progression of the state of the art so as to redirect procurement patterns accordingly. Their inherent focus on practical implementation of technology has tended to keep them oriented more towards incremental-level redesigns and reconfigurations, as opposed to revolutionary research & development or ideas that would be many years from clinical adoption; however, there is a growing effort to expand this time-horizon over which clinical engineers can influence the trajectory of biomedical innovation. In their various roles, they form a bridge between the primary designers and the end-users, by combining the perspectives of being both close to the point-of-use, while also trained in product and process engineering. Clinical engineering departments will sometimes hire not just biomedical engineers, but also industrial/systems engineers to help address operations research/optimization, human factors, cost analysis, etc. Also, see safety engineering for a discussion of the procedures used to design safe systems. The clinical engineering department is constructed with a manager, supervisor, engineer, and technician. One engineer per eighty beds in the hospital is the ratio. Clinical engineers are also authorized to audit pharmaceutical and associated stores to monitor FDA recalls of invasive items. Rehabilitation engineering Rehabilitation engineering is the systematic application of engineering sciences to design, develop, adapt, test, evaluate, apply, and distribute technological solutions to problems confronted by individuals with disabilities. Functional areas addressed through rehabilitation engineering may include mobility, communications, hearing, vision, and cognition, and activities associated with employment, independent living, education, and integration into the community.While some rehabilitation engineers have master's degrees in rehabilitation engineering, usually a subspecialty of Biomedical engineering, most rehabilitation engineers have an undergraduate or graduate degrees in biomedical engineering, mechanical engineering, or electrical engineering. A Portuguese university provides an undergraduate degree and a master's degree in Rehabilitation Engineering and Accessibility. Qualification to become a Rehab' Engineer in the UK is possible via a University BSc Honours Degree course such as Health Design & Technology Institute, Coventry University.The rehabilitation process for people with disabilities often entails the design of assistive devices such as Walking aids intended to promote the inclusion of their users into the mainstream of society, commerce, and recreation. Regulatory issues Regulatory issues have been constantly increased in the last decades to respond to the many incidents caused by devices to patients. For example, from 2008 to 2011, in US, there were 119 FDA recalls of medical devices classified as class I. According to U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Class I recall is associated to a situation in which there is a reasonable probability that the use of, or exposure to, a product will cause serious adverse health consequences or deathRegardless of the country-specific legislation, the main regulatory objectives coincide worldwide. For example, in the medical device regulations, a product must be: 1) safe and 2) effective and 3) for all the manufactured devices (why is this part deleted?) A product is safe if patients, users, and third parties do not run unacceptable risks of physical hazards (death, injuries, ...) in its intended use. Protective measures have to be introduced on the devices to reduce residual risks at an acceptable level if compared with the benefit derived from the use of it. A product is effective if it performs as specified by the manufacturer in the intended use. Effectiveness is achieved through clinical evaluation, compliance to performance standards or demonstrations of substantial equivalence with an already marketed device. The previous features have to be ensured for all the manufactured items of the medical device. This requires that a quality system shall be in place for all the relevant entities and processes that may impact safety and effectiveness over the whole medical device lifecycle. The medical device engineering area is among the most heavily regulated fields of engineering, and practicing biomedical engineers must routinely consult and cooperate with regulatory law attorneys and other experts. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is the principal healthcare regulatory authority in the United States, having jurisdiction over medical devices, drugs, biologics, and combination products. The paramount objectives driving policy decisions by the FDA are safety and effectiveness of healthcare products that have to be assured through a quality system in place as specified under 21 CFR 829 regulation. In addition, because biomedical engineers often develop devices and technologies for consumer use, such as physical therapy devices (which are also medical devices), these may also be governed in some respects by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The greatest hurdles tend to be 510K clearance (typically for Class 2 devices) or pre-market approval (typically for drugs and class 3 devices). In the European context, safety effectiveness and quality is ensured through the Conformity Assessment which is defined as the method by which a manufacturer demonstrates that its device complies with the requirements of the European Medical Device Directive. The directive specifies different procedures according to the class of the device ranging from the simple Declaration of Conformity (Annex VII) for Class I devices to EC verification (Annex IV), Production quality assurance (Annex V), Product quality assurance (Annex VI) and Full quality assurance (Annex II). The Medical Device Directive specifies detailed procedures for Certification. In general terms, these procedures include tests and verifications that are to be contained in specific deliveries such as the risk management file, the technical file, and the quality system deliveries. The risk management file is the first deliverable that conditions the following design and manufacturing steps. The risk management stage shall drive the product so that product risks are reduced at an acceptable level with respect to the benefits expected for the patients for the use of the device. The technical file contains all the documentation data and records supporting medical device certification. FDA technical file has similar content although organized in a different structure. The Quality System deliverables usually include procedures that ensure quality throughout all product life cycles. The same standard (ISO EN 13485) is usually applied for quality management systems in the US and worldwide. In the European Union, there are certifying entities named Notified Bodies, accredited by the European Member States. The Notified Bodies must ensure the effectiveness of the certification process for all medical devices apart from the class I devices where a declaration of conformity produced by the manufacturer is sufficient for marketing. Once a product has passed all the steps required by the Medical Device Directive, the device is entitled to bear a CE marking, indicating that the device is believed to be safe and effective when used as intended, and, therefore, it can be marketed within the European Union area. The different regulatory arrangements sometimes result in particular technologies being developed first for either the U.S. or in Europe depending on the more favorable form of regulation. While nations often strive for substantive harmony to facilitate cross-national distribution, philosophical differences about the optimal extent of regulation can be a hindrance; more restrictive regulations seem appealing on an intuitive level, but critics decry the tradeoff cost in terms of slowing access to life-saving developments. RoHS II Directive 2011/65/EU, better known as RoHS 2 is a recast of legislation originally introduced in 2002. The original EU legislation Restrictions of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronics Devices (RoHS Directive 2002/95/EC) was replaced and superseded by 2011/65/EU published in July 2011 and commonly known as RoHS 2. RoHS seeks to limit the dangerous substances in circulation in electronics products, in particular toxins and heavy metals, which are subsequently released into the environment when such devices are recycled. The scope of RoHS 2 is widened to include products previously excluded, such as medical devices and industrial equipment. In addition, manufacturers are now obliged to provide conformity risk assessments and test reports – or explain why they are lacking. For the first time, not only manufacturers but also importers and distributors share a responsibility to ensure Electrical and Electronic Equipment within the scope of RoHS complies with the hazardous substances limits and have a CE mark on their products. IEC 60601 The new International Standard IEC 60601 for home healthcare electro-medical devices defining the requirements for devices used in the home healthcare environment. IEC 60601-1-11 (2010) must now be incorporated into the design and verification of a wide range of home use and point of care medical devices along with other applicable standards in the IEC 60601 3rd edition series. The mandatory date for implementation of the EN European version of the standard is June 1, 2013. The US FDA requires the use of the standard on June 30, 2013, while Health Canada recently extended the required date from June 2012 to April 2013. The North American agencies will only require these standards for new device submissions, while the EU will take the more severe approach of requiring all applicable devices being placed on the market to consider the home healthcare standard. AS/NZS 3551:2012 AS/ANS 3551:2012 is the Australian and New Zealand standards for the management of medical devices. The standard specifies the procedures required to maintain a wide range of medical assets in a clinical setting (e.g. Hospital). The standards are based on the IEC 606101 standards. The standard covers a wide range of medical equipment management elements including, procurement, acceptance testing, maintenance (electrical safety and preventive maintenance testing) and decommissioning. Training and certification Education Biomedical engineers require considerable knowledge of both engineering and biology, and typically have a Bachelor's (B.Sc., B.S., B.Eng. or B.S.E.) or Master's (M.S., M.Sc., M.S.E., or M.Eng.) or a doctoral (Ph.D., or MD-PhD) degree in BME (Biomedical Engineering) or another branch of engineering with considerable potential for BME overlap. As interest in BME increases, many engineering colleges now have a Biomedical Engineering Department or Program, with offerings ranging from the undergraduate (B.Sc., B.S., B.Eng. or B.S.E.) to doctoral levels. Biomedical engineering has only recently been emerging as its own discipline rather than a cross-disciplinary hybrid specialization of other disciplines; and BME programs at all levels are becoming more widespread, including the Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Engineering which includes enough biological science content that many students use it as a pre-med major in preparation for medical school. The number of biomedical engineers is expected to rise as both a cause and effect of improvements in medical technology.In the U.S., an increasing number of undergraduate programs are also becoming recognized by ABET as accredited bioengineering/biomedical engineering programs. As of 2023, 155 programs are currently accredited by ABET.In Canada and Australia, accredited graduate programs in biomedical engineering are common. For example, McMaster University offers an M.A.Sc, an MD/PhD, and a PhD in Biomedical engineering. The first Canadian undergraduate BME program was offered at Ryerson University as a four-year B.Eng. program. The Polytechnique in Montreal is also offering a bachelors's degree in biomedical engineering as is Flinders University.As with many degrees, the reputation and ranking of a program may factor into the desirability of a degree holder for either employment or graduate admission. The reputation of many undergraduate degrees is also linked to the institution's graduate or research programs, which have some tangible factors for rating, such as research funding and volume, publications and citations. With BME specifically, the ranking of a university's hospital and medical school can also be a significant factor in the perceived prestige of its BME department/program. Graduate education is a particularly important aspect in BME. While many engineering fields (such as mechanical or electrical engineering) do not need graduate-level training to obtain an entry-level job in their field, the majority of BME positions do prefer or even require them. Since most BME-related professions involve scientific research, such as in pharmaceutical and medical device development, graduate education is almost a requirement (as undergraduate degrees typically do not involve sufficient research training and experience). This can be either a Masters or Doctoral level degree; while in certain specialties a Ph.D. is notably more common than in others, it is hardly ever the majority (except in academia). In fact, the perceived need for some kind of graduate credential is so strong that some undergraduate BME programs will actively discourage students from majoring in BME without an expressed intention to also obtain a master's degree or apply to medical school afterwards. Graduate programs in BME, like in other scientific fields, are highly varied, and particular programs may emphasize certain aspects within the field. They may also feature extensive collaborative efforts with programs in other fields (such as the university's Medical School or other engineering divisions), owing again to the interdisciplinary nature of BME. M.S. and Ph.D. programs will typically require applicants to have an undergraduate degree in BME, or another engineering discipline (plus certain life science coursework), or life science (plus certain engineering coursework). Education in BME also varies greatly around the world. By virtue of its extensive biotechnology sector, its numerous major universities, and relatively few internal barriers, the U.S. has progressed a great deal in its development of BME education and training opportunities. Europe, which also has a large biotechnology sector and an impressive education system, has encountered trouble in creating uniform standards as the European community attempts to supplant some of the national jurisdictional barriers that still exist. Recently, initiatives such as BIOMEDEA have sprung up to develop BME-related education and professional standards. Other countries, such as Australia, are recognizing and moving to correct deficiencies in their BME education. Also, as high technology endeavors are usually marks of developed nations, some areas of the world are prone to slower development in education, including in BME. Licensure/certification As with other learned professions, each state has certain (fairly similar) requirements for becoming licensed as a registered Professional Engineer (PE), but, in US, in industry such a license is not required to be an employee as an engineer in the majority of situations (due to an exception known as the industrial exemption, which effectively applies to the vast majority of American engineers). The US model has generally been only to require the practicing engineers offering engineering services that impact the public welfare, safety, safeguarding of life, health, or property to be licensed, while engineers working in private industry without a direct offering of engineering services to the public or other businesses, education, and government need not be licensed. This is notably not the case in many other countries, where a license is as legally necessary to practice engineering as it is for law or medicine. Biomedical engineering is regulated in some countries, such as Australia, but registration is typically only recommended and not required.In the UK, mechanical engineers working in the areas of Medical Engineering, Bioengineering or Biomedical engineering can gain Chartered Engineer status through the Institution of Mechanical Engineers. The Institution also runs the Engineering in Medicine and Health Division. The Institute of Physics and Engineering in Medicine (IPEM) has a panel for the accreditation of MSc courses in Biomedical Engineering and Chartered Engineering status can also be sought through IPEM. The Fundamentals of Engineering exam – the first (and more general) of two licensure examinations for most U.S. jurisdictions—does now cover biology (although technically not BME). For the second exam, called the Principles and Practices, Part 2, or the Professional Engineering exam, candidates may select a particular engineering discipline's content to be tested on; there is currently not an option for BME with this, meaning that any biomedical engineers seeking a license must prepare to take this examination in another category (which does not affect the actual license, since most jurisdictions do not recognize discipline specialties anyway). However, the Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES) is, as of 2009, exploring the possibility of seeking to implement a BME-specific version of this exam to facilitate biomedical engineers pursuing licensure. Beyond governmental registration, certain private-sector professional/industrial organizations also offer certifications with varying degrees of prominence. One such example is the Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) certification for Clinical engineers. Career prospects In 2012 there were about 19,400 biomedical engineers employed in the US, and the field was predicted to grow by 5% (faster than average) from 2012 to 2022. Biomedical engineering has the highest percentage of female engineers compared to other common engineering professions. Notable figures Julia Tutelman Apter (deceased) – One of the first specialists in neurophysiological research and a founding member of the Biomedical Engineering Society Earl Bakken (deceased) – Invented the first transistorised pacemaker, co-founder of Medtronic. Forrest Bird (deceased) – aviator and pioneer in the invention of mechanical ventilators Y.C. Fung (deceased) – professor emeritus at the University of California, San Diego, considered by many to be the founder of modern biomechanics Leslie Geddes (deceased) – professor emeritus at Purdue University, electrical engineer, inventor, and educator of over 2000 biomedical engineers, received a National Medal of Technology in 2006 from President George Bush for his more than 50 years of contributions that have spawned innovations ranging from burn treatments to miniature defibrillators, ligament repair to tiny blood pressure monitors for premature infants, as well as a new method for performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Willem Johan Kolff (deceased) – pioneer of hemodialysis as well as in the field of artificial organs Robert Langer – Institute Professor at MIT, runs the largest BME laboratory in the world, pioneer in drug delivery and tissue engineering John Macleod (deceased) – one of the co-discoverers of insulin at Case Western Reserve University. Alfred E. Mann – Physicist, entrepreneur and philanthropist. A pioneer in the field of Biomedical Engineering. J. Thomas Mortimer – Emeritus professor of biomedical engineering at Case Western Reserve University. Pioneer in Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) Robert M. Nerem – professor emeritus at Georgia Institute of Technology. Pioneer in regenerative tissue, biomechanics, and author of over 300 published works. His works have been cited more than 20,000 times cumulatively. P. Hunter Peckham – Donnell Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Orthopaedics at Case Western Reserve University. Pioneer in Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) Nicholas A. Peppas – Chaired Professor in Engineering, University of Texas at Austin, pioneer in drug delivery, biomaterials, hydrogels and nanobiotechnology. Robert Plonsey – professor emeritus at Duke University, pioneer of electrophysiology Otto Schmitt (deceased) – biophysicist with significant contributions to BME, working with biomimetics Ascher Shapiro (deceased) – Institute Professor at MIT, contributed to the development of the BME field, medical devices (e.g. intra-aortic balloons) Gordana Vunjak-Novakovic – University Professor at Columbia University, pioneer in tissue engineering and bioreactor design John G. Webster – professor emeritus at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, a pioneer in the field of instrumentation amplifiers for the recording of electrophysiological signals Fred Weibell, coauthor of Biomedical Instrumentation and Measurements U.A. Whitaker (deceased) – provider of the Whitaker Foundation, which supported research and education in BME by providing over $700 million to various universities, helping to create 30 BME programs and helping finance the construction of 13 buildings See also Biomedicine – Branch of medical science that applies biological and physiological principles to clinical practice Cardiophysics – interdisciplinary science that stands at the junction of cardiology and medical physicsPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback Computational anatomy – Interdisciplinary field of biology Medical physics – Application of physics concepts, theories and methods to medicine or healthcare Physiome Biomedical Engineering and Instrumentation Program (BEIP) References Further reading Bronzino, Joseph D. (April 2006). The Biomedical Engineering Handbook (Third ed.). [CRC Press]. ISBN 978-0-8493-2124-5. Archived from the original on 2015-02-24. Retrieved 2009-06-22. Villafane, Carlos (June 2009). Biomed: From the Student's Perspective (First ed.). [Techniciansfriend.com]. ISBN 978-1-61539-663-4. External links Media related to Biomedical engineering at Wikimedia Commons Biomedical Engineering at Curlie King George's Medical University is a medical school, hospital, and medical university located in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India. The medical school was raised to a medical university by an act passed by the government of Uttar Pradesh on 16 September 2002. It is the only government medical institution to have been awarded the NAAC A+ grade in the state of Uttar Pradesh. The university has about 1250 undergraduate students (including 280 dental students) and 450 postgraduate students.About 250 students a year are admitted to the four-and-a-half-year course of study for the degree of M.B.B.S. History King George V, then the Prince of Wales, laid the foundation stone of King George's Medical College in 1906. The college opened its gates in 1911, though the official opening ceremony was delayed to January 1912. The college was directly under the Government of the United Provinces, and degrees were awarded through Allahabad University. In 1921, the college was transferred to Lucknow University.In 2002 the Government of Uttar Pradesh, led by Mayawati of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), granted university status the college and renamed it Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj Medical University (CSMMU), under the Uttar Pradesh Chhatrapati Shahuji Medical University Act, 2002. In August 2003 Mulayam Singh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party (SP) replaced Mayawati and became Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh. Two months later, in October 2003, the name of the university was changed to King George's Medical University (KGMU) by the Uttar Pradesh Chhartrapati Shahuji Maharaj Medical University (Second Amendment) Act, 2003.Name-changing continued. In 2007, after the BSP won the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly election and Mayawati returned to office, the name of the institution reverted to CSMMU. When control returned to the SP in the 2012 election, Akhilesh Yadav's government returned the name of the university the current King George Medical University.Similar changes occurred for the dental faculty. The faculty was established in 1949 as a section of the ENT department; raised to a separate department in 1950, it moved to a new building in 1952. When the university was established in 2002, the dental department became the Dental College, a constituent college of the university. Two years later, under the Uttar Pradesh King George's University of Dental Science Act, 2004, the Dental College was raised to the status of a state university named the U.P. King George’s University of Dental Science. In 2007, the government reverted this decision and the U.P. King George's University of Dental Science again became simply a Faculty of Dental Sciences, as it was at the establishment of the university. Faculties and institutes Faculty of Medical Sciences Faculty of Dental Sciences Institute of Paramedical Sciences Institute of Nursing Undergraduate courses The college offers the four and a half year M.B.B.S. course with a one-year compulsory rotating internship. There are 250 seats for MBBS and 51 seats for BDS, which are filled through NEETExam. Bsc nursing 120 seats which are filled through Cnet exam. Postgraduate and doctoral courses There are more than 28 PG courses and 13 Doctoral courses in KGMU. Thus almost all the branches of medicine and dental have a training program at KGMU. Diploma and PG diploma courses are also available in the institute.Master's in nursing 25 seats which are filled through Cnet exam Rankings The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) has ranked the university 50 among universities in India in 2022, 11th among medical colleges, 5th among dental colleges and 75 overall. It was ranked fourth among government medical colleges in India in 2022 by Outlook India. Notable people The University has a long list of its prestigious alumni who have earned name and fame throughout the country as well as in abroad. As of now, the University has given 1 Padma Vibhushan, 6 Padma Bhushan, 29 Padma Shri and 45 BC Roy awardees to the nation. Notable alumni Notable faculty See also References External links Official website The National University of Singapore (NUS) is a national public collegiate and research university in Singapore. It was officially established in 1980 by the merger of the University of Singapore and Nanyang University.The university offers degree programmes in disciplines at both the undergraduate and postgraduate levels, including in the sciences, medicine and dentistry, design and environment, law, arts and social sciences, engineering, business, computing, and music. NUS's main campus is located adjacent to the Kent Ridge subzone of Queenstown. The Duke–NUS Medical School is located at the Outram campus. The Bukit Timah campus houses the Faculty of Law and Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy. NUS's affiliated faculty members and researchers include one Nobel Prize laureate, one Tang Prize laureate, and one Vautrin Lud laureate. History In September 1904, Tan Jiak Kim led a group of representatives of the Chinese and other non-European communities to petition the Governor of the Straits Settlements, Sir John Anderson, to establish a medical school in Singapore. It was noted by Anderson that there were other petitions prior which were not successful due to concerns over having a sufficient number of students and support from the local community. Tan, who was the first president of the Straits Chinese British Association, managed to raise 87,077 Straits dollars from the community, including a personal donation of $12,000. On 3 July 1905, the medical school was founded and was known as the Straits Settlements and Federated Malay States Government Medical School. At Anderson's directions, the school was hosted temporarily at a recently emptied block at a Government-run asylum in Pasir Panjang while providing the staff required to run the school.In 1912, the medical school received an endowment of $120,000 from the King Edward VII Memorial Fund, started by physician Lim Boon Keng. Subsequently, on 18 November 1913, the name of the school was changed to King Edward VII Medical School. In 1921, it was again changed to King Edward VII College of Medicine to reflect its academic status.In 1928, Raffles College, a separate institution from the medical school, was established to promote education in arts and social sciences. University of Malaya in Singapore (1949–1962) On 8 October 1949, Raffles College was merged with King Edward VII College of Medicine to form the University of Malaya. The two institutions were merged to provide for the higher education needs of the Federation of Malaya.The growth of University of Malaya was very rapid during the first decade of its establishment and resulted in the setting up of two autonomous divisions in 1959, one located in Singapore and the other in Kuala Lumpur. Nanyang University (1955–1980) In 1955, Nanyang University (abbreviated Nan-tah, 南大) was established on the backdrop of the Chinese community in Singapore. University of Singapore (1962–1980) In 1960, the governments of then Federation of Malaya and Singapore indicated their desire to change the status of the divisions into that of a national university. Legislation was passed in 1961, establishing the former Kuala Lumpur division as the University of Malaya, while the Singapore division was renamed the University of Singapore on 1 January 1962. Present form The National University of Singapore (NUS) was formed with the merger of the University of Singapore and Nanyang University on 6 August 1980. This was done in part due to the government's desire to pool the two institutions' resources into a single, stronger entity and promote English as Singapore's main language of education. The original crest of Nanyang University with three intertwined rings was incorporated into the new coat-of-arms of NUS.Most departments of the university were situated at the Bukit Timah campus, with the gradual shift to the Kent Ridge site starting in 1969 and completed in 1986. NUS began its entrepreneurial education endeavours in the 1980s, with the setting up of the Centre for Management of Innovation and Technopreneurship in 1988. In 2001, this was renamed the NUS Entrepreneurship Centre (NEC), and became a division of NUS Enterprise. NEC is currently headed by Wong Poh Kam and its activities are organised into four areas, including a business incubator, experiential education, entrepreneurship development and entrepreneurship research. NUS has 17 faculties and schools across three campus locations in Singapore – Kent Ridge, Bukit Timah and Outram. NUS also collaborates with many other Universities around the world, such as the Georgia Institute of Technology Coat of arms The coat of arms of the National University of Singapore was adopted in 1980 and modernised in 2001. It is the combination of the coat of arms of the former University of Singapore used since 1962 (consisting of an open book and a lion, which itself was derived from the former coat of arms of the University of Malaya used from 1949 until 1962, which featured a tiger instead of a lion), and the emblem of the former Nanyang University, three interlocking rings but without the star used since 1955. It is blazoned: Argent a lion passant guardant proper; on a chief azure dexter an open book also proper, bound, edged and clasped Or and sinister three annulets interlaced one and two Argent. The lion represents NUS as a Singaporean university, the open book represents knowledge and the three rings represents the university's role in creating, imparting and applying knowledge, as well as creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship. The National University of Singapore is one of two public universities in Singapore to adopt its coat of arms, alongside the Nanyang Technological University, with which it has relations. Reputation and rankings Overall Rankings Globally, NUS was #8 in the QS World University Rankings 2024, #19 in the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings 2024, #26 in the USNWR 2022-2023 Best Global Universities Rankings, #71 in the Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU) 2023, #29 in the SCImago Institutions Rankings 2020, and #26 in the Informatics Institute/METU's University Ranking by Academic Performance (URAP) 2022–2023.NUS was the 27th best-ranked university worldwide in terms of aggregate performance across THE, QS, and ARWU, as reported by ARTU 2023.QS has ranked NUS among the world's top 15 since 2016. THE has ranked NUS among the world's top 30 since 2013. The joint THE–QS World University Rankings from 2004 to 2009 ranked NUS globally 18th (2004), 22nd (2005), 19th (2006), 33rd (2007), 30th (2008 and 2009). NUS was 19th in the THE World Reputation Rankings 2022, and was named the world's 10th most international university by THE in 2023.The World's Top 2% Scientists by Stanford University features numerous NUS researchers from a wide range of disciplines. Subject/Area Rankings In the 2023 QS World University Rankings by Subject, NUS ranked among the global top 10 for 14 subjects. In the Arts & Humanities category, NUS ranked 47th globally and 1st nationally, with notable high ranks in Art History (4th), Architecture (7th), and Linguistics (12th). In the Engineering and Technology category, NUS ranked 16th globally and 2nd nationally, having secured a place in the global top 10 in Civil and Structural Engineering (4th), Chemical Engineering (6th), Computer Science and Information Systems (6th), Electrical and Electronic Engineering (10th), and Mechanical Engineering (10th). In the Life Sciences & Medicine category, NUS secured the 33rd position globally and 1st nationally, with Pharmacy and Pharmacology notably ranked 10th globally. In the Natural Sciences category, NUS ranked 43rd globally and 1st nationally, with Geography standing out at 5th globally. For Social Sciences & Management, NUS ranked 18th globally and 1st nationally.In the 2024 Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings by Subject, NUS achieved high global ranks in several subjects, being ranked 11th in Computer Science, 9th in Engineering, 11th in Law, and 15th in Business & Economics. In all subjects, NUS held the top spot nationally.In the 2023 Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU) Global Ranking of Academic Subjects, NUS exhibited strong global standing, being ranked among the global top 30 in 22 subjects. In most subjects, NUS achieved a national rank of 1. NUS's performance in the Business School Rankings by Financial Times: Graduate Employability Rankings NUS graduates ranked 8th worldwide in the Times Higher Education's Global University Employability Ranking 2022, and 17th worldwide in the QS Graduate Employability Rankings 2022. Academic Structure NUS has a semester-based modular system for conducting undergraduate courses. It adopts features of the British system, such as small group teaching (tutorials) on top of regular two-hour lectures, and the American system (course credits). NUS has 17 faculties and schools across three campuses, including a music conservatory. University Scholars Programme The University Scholars Programme (USP) was an undergraduate academic programme established in 2001 in NUS, which comprised a compulsory general education programme. USP admitted 240 undergraduates annually. USP students resided in Cinnamon College at the NUS University Town. NUS College A modernized version of the University Scholars Programme, the NUS College today serves as the university's honors college, with a more rigorous application and a focus on global citizenship. The NUS College program notably involves foreign, service-based exchange around South-East Asia, guided by their core ideal that Learning is a contact sport. Faculties and Schools Business The NUS Business School was founded as the Department of Business Administration in 1965. The NUS Business School ranks 6th in the Forbes The Best International MBAs: Two-Year Programs and 21st in the Financial Times Global MBA Rankings 2022. NUS also offers MBA double degrees in collaboration with overseas universities such as Peking University, HEC Paris, and Yale University. Computing The School of Computing established in 1998, has two departments: Computer Science; and Information Systems and Analytics. Dentistry The Faculty of Dentistry traces its origins in 1929 as a Department of Dentistry within the King Edward VII College of Medicine. The faculty conducts a four-year dental course leading to a Bachelor of Dental Surgery degree. Design and Engineering The interdisciplinary College of Design and Engineering (CDE) was established in 2021, bringing together two pre-existing faculties, the School of Design and Environment (SDE) and the Faculty of Engineering (FoE). The School of Design and Environment has three departments: Department of Architecture; Department of the Built Environment; and the Division of Industrial Design. The Faculty of Engineering was established in 1968. It is the largest faculty in the university, and consists of several departments spanning diverse engineering fields. Humanities and Sciences The interdisciplinary College of Humanities and Sciences (CHS) was established in 2020. It comprises the two largest faculties, the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, and the Faculty of Science, though both faculties are still branded independently, unlike CDE.The Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences has roots in Raffles College. Initially offering just four subjects: English, History, Geography and Economics, the Faculty now offers majors, minors and special programmes across 16 Departments. This includes the Centre for Language Studies, which teaches 13 different languages, and the Office of Programmes, which houses multidisciplinary fields and minor programmes. The South Asian Studies Programme is not officially classified as a department, but as a departmental entity.The Faculty of Science comprises multiple departments, spanning across natural and applied sciences. The first female Dean of the Faculty of Science was Gloria Lim, who was appointed in 1973. She served a four-year term and was reappointed in 1979, but resigned after one year to allow Koh Lip Lin to continue his post. In 1980, University of Singapore merged with Nanyang University to form NUS, resulting in overlapping posts. Integrative Sciences and Engineering The NUS Graduate School for Integrative Sciences and Engineering (NGS) was established in 2003. The principal purpose of NGS is to promote integrative PhD research encompassing both laboratory work and coursework programmes which not only transcend traditional subject boundaries but also provides students with a depth of experience about science and the way it is carried out. Law The NUS Faculty of Law was first established as a Department of Law in the University of Malaya in 1956. The first law students were admitted to the Bukit Timah campus of the university the following year. In 1980, the faculty shifted to the Kent Ridge campus, but in 2006 it relocated back to the Bukit Timah site.The faculty offers LLB, LLM, JD, and PhD programmes, alongside continuing education and graduate certificate programmes. Medicine The Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine at NUS was first established as the Straits Settlements and Federated Malay States Government Medical School in 1905. The School uses the British undergraduate medical system, offering a full-time undergraduate programme leading to a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS). For Nursing, the Bachelor of Science (Nursing) conducted by the Alice Lee Centre for Nursing Studies is offered. The department also offers postgraduate programmes in nursing, medicine, and medical science. Duke–NUS Medical School The Duke–NUS Medical School (Duke–NUS) is a graduate medical school in Singapore. The school was set up in April 2005 as the Duke–NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore's second medical school, after the Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, and before the Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine. The Duke–NUS Medical School is a collaboration between Duke University in North Carolina, United States and the National University of Singapore. Music The Yong Siew Toh Conservatory of Music (YSTCM) is a collaboration between NUS and the Peabody Institute of Johns Hopkins University. Singapore's first conservatory of music, YSTCM was founded as the Singapore Conservatory of Music in 2001. The School was renamed Yong Siew Toh Conservatory of Music after a gift was made by the family of the late Dr Yong Loo Lin in memory of his daughter. Public Health The Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health is Singapore's first and only tertiary education institution for public health. The school traces its origins to the University of Malaya's Department of Social Medicine and Public Health, formed in 1948. Public Policy The Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy was established in 2004 as an autonomous graduate school of NUS. Although the School was formally launched in 2004, it inherited NUS's Public Policy Programme, which was established in 1992 in partnership with Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government. Yale-NUS College The Yale-NUS College is a liberal arts college in Singapore established in August 2013 as a joint project of Yale University and the National University of Singapore. It is an autonomous college within NUS, allowing it greater freedom to develop its own policies while tapping on the existing facilities and resources of the main university. Students who graduate receive a degree awarded by NUS. Pericles Lewis, a former professor at Yale, was appointed as the founding president in 2012.In August 2021, NUS announced that it was going to merge Yale-NUS College with the University Scholars Programme to form a new honours college, NUS College, by 2025 The merger marks the dissolution of NUS's partnership with Yale University. The last class of Yale-NUS College students were those admitted in 2021, following which Yale-NUS would operate for several years until all of its students have graduated. Teaching centres NUS has a variety of teaching centres including: Centre for Development of Teaching and Learning (CDTL) Centre for Instructional Technology (CIT) Centre for English Language Communication (CELC) Institute of Systems Science (ISS), which offers professional IT continuing education Centre for Teaching and Learning CTL at Yale-NUS College NUS High School of Mathematics and Science NUS High School of Mathematics and Science is a school specialising in mathematics and science, and provides secondary and pre-tertiary education to students with inclinations to these fields. Research The major research focuses at NUS are biomedical science, physical science, engineering, nanoscience, material science, information technology, humanities, social sciences, and defence.One of several niche research areas of strategic importance to Singapore being undertaken at NUS is bioengineering. Initiatives in this area include bioimaging, tissue engineering and tissue modulation.The university has received a number of grants from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for research into areas including vaccine development, water treatment, mobile devices in healthcare, iris recognition, synthetic antibodies, tuberculosis, and government response to the COVID-19 pandemic in Asia. Research institutes and centres Currently, NUS hosts 21 university-level research institutes and centres (RICs) in various fields. Four of these RICs have been designated Research Centres of Excellence by the Singapore government — the Cancer Science Institute of Singapore, Centre for Quantum Technologies, Mechanobiology Institute, and Institute for Functional Intelligent Materials.Besides university-level RICs, NUS also affiliates with other universities to establish research centres and institutes. The Logistics Institute – Asia Pacific is a collaborative effort between NUS and the Georgia Institute of Technology for research and education in logistics. The Next Age Institute, a partnership with Washington University in St. Louis, is the most recent cross-university centre involving NUS, established in February 2015. Entrepreneurship NUS began its entrepreneurial education endeavours in the 1980s, establishing the Centre for Management of Innovation and Technopreneurship in 1988. In 2001, this was renamed the NUS Entrepreneurship Centre (NEC), and became a division of NUS Enterprise, the entrepreneurial arm of NUS. Its activities include entrepreneurial education and outreach, technology commercialisation, and a business incubator.The NUS Overseas Colleges (NOC) programme was started in 2001, giving students the opportunity to experience, live, work and study in an entrepreneurial hub. Participants of the programme either spend 6 months or a year overseas, taking courses at partner universities and working in start-ups.The NUS Industry Liaison Office (ILO) is another department that is involved in the creation of deep tech start-ups. It manages the university's technology transfer and promotes research collaborations with industry and partners. ILO manages NUS intellectual property, commercialises its intellectual assets and facilitates the spinning off of technologies into start-up companies. Campus facilities and resources NUS's main campus is located in the southwestern part of Singapore, adjacent to the Kent Ridge subzone of Queenstown, accommodating an area of 170 ha (420 acres). The Duke–NUS Medical School, a postgraduate medical school jointly established with Duke University, is located at the Outram campus; and its Bukit Timah campus houses the Faculty of Law and Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy.Buildings of NUS IT and computing services NUS hosts NUSNET, an intranet, which is used in research, teaching, learning and administration. In 2004, a campus-wide grid computing network was deployed, connecting at least 1,000 computers. At the time, it was one of the largest of such virtual supercomputing facilities in the region. Libraries The NUS Libraries currently comprises seven libraries: the Central Library, Wan Boo Sow Chinese Library (Chinese: 雲茂潮中文图书馆), C J Koh Law Library, Hon Sui Sen Memorial Library, the Medicine+Science Library, Music Library and Yale-NUS College Library. As of June 2017, there were 2,354,741 unique titles, and 26,074 microform resources in the collection. This has since expanded to 3,018,572 unique physical titles, 94,446 electronic periodicals, 1,244,448 electronic books and 936 databases, as of 2022. NUS Libraries University Town The NUS University Town (UTown) opened in August 2011. Located at the Kent Ridge campus, it was built on the site of a former golf course. UTown hosts four residential colleges, a graduate residence, research institutes (such as the TUM CREATE), lecture theatres, restaurants, convenience stores, and a barber shop.University Town, NUS Transportation The university has a free Internal Shuttle Bus system that operates across the Bukit Timah and Kent Ridge campuses. In late 2022, the university started to deploy electric bus in partnership with CDG.NUS Internal Shuttle Bus Student accommodation NUS has three types of student accommodation: halls of residence, student residences, and residential colleges. There are about 6,000 residential places distributed between halls of residence and student residences on campus, in addition to around 4,100 students who live in the residential colleges and graduate residences. Halls of residence NUS has 7 Halls of Residence with about 3,000 residential places. A points system, based on co-currciular activities and leadership roles, is used to allocate residential places to students. Halls have their own interest groups and student productions in addition to university-wide student co-curricular activities. Halls compete with each other in the Inter-Hall Games.The Halls of Residence are: Eusoff Hall Kent Ridge Hall King Edward VII Hall Raffles Hall Sheares Hall Temasek Hall Student residences NUS has two student residences — Prince George's Park Residences and UTown Residences — for undergraduate and graduate students. The residences are arranged in clusters of 11 to 15 single rooms, with shared kitchen and bathroom facilities. The UTown Residences also has apartments for students. Residential colleges NUS also houses residential colleges, which are modelled after the college systems of universities. Like halls, residential colleges have unique co-curricular activities. Residential colleges also have their own academic programmes, with general education requirements differing from each other and the rest of the university. The academic programmes in residential colleges take place in seminars. Cinnamon College/West Wing Cinnamon College housed the University Scholars Programme (USP) until the 2021 intake. Together with the current Yale-NUS College Campus (which has been renamed the West Wing), the college will house the NUS College from the 2022 intake onwards. USP students and faculty are accommodated in 600 rooms. Tembusu College Tembusu College was the second residential colleges in NUS University Town. Tembusu houses mainly first and second-year undergraduates, in addition to resident faculty, visiting scholars and graduate fellows. The former founding Rector of Tembusu College is Singapore's Ambassador-at-Large and former United Nations Ambassador Tommy Koh, who is also the former Dean of the NUS Faculty of Law. College of Alice & Peter Tan The College of Alice & Peter Tan (CAPT) is a Residential College for all NUS undergraduates which emphasises active citizenship and community engagement. It provides a two-year academic programme. Residential College 4 Residential College 4 (RC4) is another Residential College in NUS. Ridge View Residential College Ridge View Residential College (RVRC) was formally established in April 2014, housed in the former Ridge View Residences. It is the only residential college that is situated outside University Town. The site was the former location for Kent Ridge Hall until November 2002. In November 2015, an annexe building to RVRC was constructed. It was completed in February 2017. Vice-Chancellors & Presidents Below is a list of presidents throughout the history of the National University of Singapore (and its predecessors). The office of the President of Raffles College was renamed Principal of Raffles College from 1938. Notable alumni Since its inception in 1905, NUS has had many distinguished alumni from Singapore and Malaysia, including two Singapore Prime Ministers and four Singapore Presidents, two Malaysian Prime Ministers, and many politicians, judiciaries, business executives, educators and local celebrities. It counts among its graduates, heads of state/government Abdul Razak Hussein, Benjamin Sheares, Goh Chok Tong, Mahathir Mohamad and S. R. Nathan. The first prime minister of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, attended Raffles College briefly prior to World War II. A number of its graduates are also notable politicians such as Rais Yatim, Malaysia's former Minister of Information, Communications and Culture, Ng Eng Hen, Singapore's Minister for Defence, Vivian Balakrishnan, Singapore's Minister for Foreign Affairs, and S. Jayakumar, Singapore's former Deputy Prime Minister.Many of Singapore's business leaders come from NUS, including as former Chairman of the Singapore Exchange, and Singapore Tourism Board Chew Choon Seng, CEO of the Hyflux Group Olivia Lum, former CEO of the Temasek Holdings Ho Ching, Chairman of SPRING Singapore Philip Yeo and CEO of Razer Inc Min-Liang Tan.In international politics, NUS counts among its graduates former Director-General of the World Health Organization Margaret Chan, former President of the United Nations Security Council Kishore Mahbubani, and vice-president of the International Olympic Committee Ng Ser Miang.NUS had served as Singapore's only law school for half a century, until the SMU School of Law was set up in 2007. Many of Singapore's judges and lawyers come from the school. This includes Singapore's Minister for Law, and Home Affairs K. Shanmugam, the fourth Chief Justice of Singapore Sundaresh Menon and the third Chief Justice of Singapore Chan Sek Keong.In academia, NUS faculty include former vice-president of Finance for the University of Virginia, and Cornell University Yoke San Reynolds, and former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong Wang Gungwu. Notable Alumni of NUS See also Education in Singapore National University Hospital Nanyang University University of Malaya S*, a collaboration between seven universities and the Karolinska Institutet for training in bioinformatics and genomics References External links Media related to National University of Singapore at Wikimedia Commons National University of Singapore official site Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences is located in Karad, Maharashtra, The green, eco-friendly campus is spread over 57 acres and is well connected by rail, road & air. The University is accredited by NAAC 'A+' grade and has been conferred with ISO 9001 : 2015 certification. The constituent faculties of the University include Medical, Dental, Physiotherapy, Nursing, Pharmacy and Biotechnology offering undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the respective faculties. It also runs Ph.D. programs and Post Doctoral Fellowships in various subjects. The medical college is about 35 years old and is recognized by the Medical Council of India, Medical Council of Malaysia and is listed in the WHO's World Directory of Medical Schools. MBBS and postgraduate degree/diploma courses in clinical and basic sciences in 17 disciplines are recognized by Medical Council of India. It also admits the international students from all over the globe for undergraduate courses. It has state-of-the-art museums with large collection of specimens and models. The KIMS diagnostic laboratory has been accredited by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). The Lead Referral Laboratory is the first of its kind in Maharashtra state, which was ranked the first amongst 40 such centres in India. The well equipped Molecular & Human Genetics Laboratory is a feather in the cap. The teaching hospital KH&MRC (Krishna Hospital and Medical Research Centre) is recognised by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH). The teaching hospital is 1125 bedded multispecialty tertiary care hospital with facilities for Critical Care, Endoscopic Surgeries, Dialysis, Cardiology, Cardio-vascular-thoracic-surgery, Oncology, Urology, Neurosurgery, Plastic surgery, Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery and a recognized Renal Transplant Unit. It has fully equipped major operation theaters, minor theaters, labour rooms, blood bank accredited by NABH, radiodiagnosis and radiotherapy, computerized medical records, counseling services etc. There are separate intensive care units like Medical, Surgical, Coronary care, Pediatric, Neonatal (accredited by Neonatology Forum of India), Respiratory and Obstetrics. The neonatal ICU is recognized by Neonatology Forum of India. The radio-diagnosis department has facilities for MRI, color doppler, mammography, DSA etc. It also actively participates in national healthcare programs and various extensions and outreach community programs initiated by the institute. The University has been ranked 5th amongst the cleanest higher Educational Institutions in the category of 'Technical Institutions - Universities (Residential)' in the year 2018. The University has also received certificate for 'Maintaining, Promoting and Encouraging the Culture of Swachhta in Higher Education Institutions in the country'. Experienced faculty, secure and spacious hostels, a sports complex, various extra-curricular activities have succeeded in attracting the students from all over India and from USA, UK, New Zealand, Middle East countries, Sri Lanka, Canada, Mauritius and many other countries. Ranking Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences was ranked 37th among medical colleges and 90th among Universities in India by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) in 2020. References External links Official website The International Journal of Medical Sciences is a peer-reviewed open access medical journal published by Ivyspring International Publisher covering research in basic medical sciences. Articles include original research papers, reviews, and short research communications. Full text of published articles is archived in PubMed Central. The current editor-in-chief is Dennis D. Taub (National Institute on Aging). Abstracting and indexing The journal is abstracted and indexed in: According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 2.399. References External links Official website Banaras Hindu University() (BHU) (IAST: kāśī hindū viśvavidyālaya IPA: /kaːʃiː hɪnd̪uː ʋɪʃwəʋid̪jaːləj/) is a collegiate, central, and research university located in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, India, and founded in 1916. The university incorporated the Central Hindu College, founded by Indian Home Rule-leaguer and Theosophist, Annie Besant in 1898. After Besant and her associates were marginalized, the university was established by Madan Mohan Malaviya with the financial support of the maharaja of Darbhanga Rameshwar Singh, the maharaja of Benares Prabhu Narayan Singh, and the lawyer Sunder Lal. With over 30,000 students, and 18,000 residing on campus, BHU is the largest residential university in Asia. The university is one of the eight public institutions declared as an Institute of Eminence by the Government of India. It is also one of the 12 institutions from India in BRICS Universities League, a consortium of leading research universities from BRICS countries.BHU has often been referred by different names throughout the history and present. Some of the English names include Banaras University, Benares Hindu University, and Hindu University.The university's main campus, spread over 1,370 acres (5.5 km2), was built on land donated by the Kashi Naresh Prabhu Narayan Singh, the hereditary ruler of Banaras (Kashi being an alternative name for Banaras or Varanasi). The south campus, spread over 2,700 acres (11 km2) is built on land donated later by Maharaj Kumar Aditya Narayan Singh in Sunderpur, hosts the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (Agriculture Science Centre) and is located in Barkachha in Mirzapur district, about 60 km (37 mi) from Varanasi.BHU is organized into six institutes, 14 faculties (streams) and about 140 departments. As of 2020, the total student enrolment at the university is 30,698 coming from 48 countries. It has over 65 hostels for resident students. Several of its faculties and institutes include Arts, Social Sciences, Commerce, Management Studies, Science, Performing Arts, Law, Agricultural Science, Medical Science, and Environment and Sustainable Development along with departments of Linguistics, Journalism & Mass Communication, among others. The university's engineering institute was designated as an Indian Institute of Technology in June 2012, and henceforth is Indian Institute of Technology (BHU).Centralised in 1916 through the Banaras Hindu University Act, Banaras Hindu University is India's first central university. BHU celebrated its centenary year in 2015–2016. History The Banaras Hindu University was jointly established by Madan Mohan Malaviya, Annie Besant, Maharaja Rameshwar Singh of Darbhanga Raj and Prabhu Narayan Singh and Aditya Narayan Singh of Narayan dynasty, while the university is the brainchild of Malviya. At the 21st Conference of the Indian National Congress in Benares in December 1905, Malaviya publicly announced his intent to establish a university in Banaras. Malaviya continued to develop his vision for the university with inputs from other Indian nationalists and educationists. He published his plan in 1911. The focus of his arguments was the prevailing poverty in India and the decline in income of Indians compared to Europeans. The plan called for the focus on technology and science, besides the study of India's religion and culture: The millions mired in poverty here can only get rid (of it) when science is used in their interest. Such maximum application of science is only possible when scientific knowledge is available to Indians in their own country. -- Madan Mohan Malviya Malaviya's plan evaluated whether to seek government recognition for the university or operate without its control. He decided in favour of the former for various reasons. Malaviya also considered the question of medium of instruction and decided to start with English given the prevalent environment, and gradually add Hindi and other Indian languages. A distinguishing characteristic of Malaviya's vision was the preference for a residential university. All other Indian universities of the period, such as the universities in Bombay, Calcutta, Madras, etc., were affiliating universities which only conducted examinations and awarded degrees to students of their affiliated colleges. Malaviya had supported Annie Besant's cause and in 1903, he had raised 250,000 Rupees in donations to finance the construction of the school's hostel. In 1907 Besant had applied for a royal charter to establish a university. However, there was no response from the British government. Following the publication of Malviya's plan, Besant met Malviya and in April 1911 they agreed to unite their forces to build the university in Varanasi. Malaviya soon left his legal practice to focus exclusively on developing the university and his independence activities. On 22 November 1911, he registered the Hindu University Society to gather support and raise funds for building the university. He spent the next four years gathering support and raising funds for the university. Malaviya sought and received early support from the Kashi Naresh Prabhu Narayan Singh and Rameshwar Singh Bahadur of Raj Darbhanga. Thakur Jadunath Singh of Arkha along with other noble houses of United Provinces contributed for the development of the university. On 22 March 1915, then Education Minister Harcourt Butler introduced the Benares Hindu University Bill in the Imperial Legislative Council. In his speech, he remarked about the university:My Lord, this is no ordinary occasion. We are watching to-day the birth of a new and, many hope, a better type of University in India. The main features of this University, which distinguish it from existing Universities, will be, first. that it will be a teaching and residential University; secondly, that while it will be open to all castes and creeds, it will insist upon religious instructions for Hindus, and thirdly, that it will be conducted and managed by the Hindu community and almost entirely by non-officials.The Benares Hindu University Bill was passed on 1 October 1915 and assented by the Viceroy and Governor-General of India on the same day. BHU was finally established in 1916, the first university in India that was the result of people's efforts. The foundation for the main campus of the university was laid by Lord Hardinge, the then Viceroy of India, on Vasant Panchami 4 February 1916. To promote the university's expansion, Malviya invited eminent guest speakers such as Mahatma Gandhi, Jagadish Chandra Bose, C. V. Raman, Prafulla Chandra Ray, Sam Higginbottom, Patrick Geddes, and Besant to deliver a series of what are now called The University Extension Lectures between 5–8 February 1916. Gandhi's lecture on the occasion was his first public address in India.Sunder Lal was appointed the first vice-chancellor, and the university began its academic session the same month with classes initially held at the Central Hindu School in the Kamachha area, while the campus was being built on over 1,300 acres (5.3 km2) of land donated by the Kashi Naresh on the outskirts of the city. The Nizam of Hyderabad and Berar, Mir Osman Ali Khan, also made a donation for the university.The university's anthem, called Kulgeet, was composed by university professor and eminent scientist Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar. Campus Main campus Banaras Hindu University's main campus is located on the southern edge of Varanasi, near the banks of the river Ganges. Development of the main campus, spread over 1,370 acres (5.5 km2), started in 1916 on land donated by the then Kashi Naresh Prabhu Narayan Singh. The campus layout approximates a semicircle, with intersecting roads laid out along the radii or in arcs. Buildings built in the first half of the 20th century are fine examples of Indo-Gothic architecture. The campus has over 65 hostels offering residential accommodation for over 12,000 students. On-campus housing is also available to a majority of the full-time faculty. The main entrance gate and boundary wall was built on the donation made by Maharaja of Balrampur, Maharaja Pateshvari Prashad Singh, and is named after him as the Singh Dwar (transl. Singh Gate).The Sayaji Rao Gaekwad Library is the main library on campus and houses over 1.3 million volumes as of 2011. Completed in 1941, its construction was financed by Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III of Baroda. In addition to the main library, there are three institute libraries, eight faculty libraries and over 25 departmental libraries available to students and staff. Sir Sunderlal Hospital on the campus is a teaching hospital for the Institute of Medical Sciences. Established in 1926 with 96 beds, it has since been expanded to over 900 beds and is the largest tertiary referral hospital in the region. The most prominent landmark is the Shri Vishwanath Mandir, located in the centre of the campus. The foundation for this 252 feet (77 m) high complex of seven temples was laid in March 1931, and took almost three decades to complete.Established in 1920, Bharat Kala Bhavan is the university museum of the Banaras Hindu University. It is situated inside the main campus of the university with over 100,000 holdings which include artifacts, paintings, philately, textiles, costumes, etc. Rajiv Gandhi South Campus The south campus is located in Barkachha in Mirzapur district, about 60 km (37 mi) southwest of the main campus. Spread over an area of over 2,700 acres (11 km2), it was transferred as a lease in perpetuity to BHU by the Bharat Mandal Trust in 1979.It hosts the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (Agricultural Science Centre), with focus on research in agricultural techniques, agro-forestry and bio-diversity appropriate to the Vindhya Range region. The South Campus features a lecture complex, library, student hostels and faculty housing, besides administrative offices. Halls of residence BHU is a fully residential university with a total of 66 hostels - 41 hostels for male, 21 hostels for female students, and 4 hostels for International students.Hostels in the university are divided among different faculties, institutes, campuses, and colleges catering to their specific demands. Out of the four separate hostels for international students, two are for boys and the other two for girls.Hostels of the university are named after several historically important figures such as Raja Baldev Das Jugal Kishore Birla, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Rani Laxmibai and M. Visvesvaraya. Some hostels are named after important rivers of India; 'Triveni' for instance was initially a cluster of three girls' hostels named after rivers Ganga, Yamuna, and Sarasvati; thereby the cluster being called after Triveni Sangam. Later, hostels named after river Godavari and Kaveri were also added to the 'Triveni' block.BHU also provides on-campus residence to a substantial number of teaching and non-teaching staff. There are 654 quarters for teaching staff, 688 quarters for non-teaching staff. Organisation and administration Governance The President of India (as of December 2022, Droupadi Murmu) is the visitor of the Banaras Hindu University. The university's formal head is the chancellor (currently Giridhar Malaviya), though this is a titular figure, and is not involved with the day-to-day running of the university. The chancellor is elected by the members of the University Court. The university's chief executive is the Vice-chancellor (as of December 2022, Sudhir K. Jain), appointed by the president of India on the recommendations of Ministry of Education which, in turn, is based on an open application process. All permanent administrative offices of the university are located in the Central Office. The university is governed as per the procedures laid out in the Banaras Hindu University Act of 1915, and statutes of the university. The executive council is the supreme executive governing body of the university and exercises all the powers on management and administration of the revenue, property, and administrative affairs of the university. The University Court is the supreme advisory body to the Visitor for all matters not otherwise provided for by the Banaras Hindu University Act, and the statutes. The Academic Council is the highest academic body of the university and is responsible for the maintenance of standards of instruction, education and examination within the university. It has the right to advise the executive council on all academic matters. The finance committee is responsible for recommending financial policies, goals, and budgets.The BHU Act has clearly laid out procedure and functions of different administrative bodies of the university. All officers of the university draw their power and responsibilities from the BHU Act of 1915, and statues of the university. University Temple The university has a university temple called Shri Vishwanath Mandir also known as Vishwanath Temple located in the center of the campus, primarily dedicated to Lord Shiva along with 8 other temples inside the main temple structure. International Centre BHU established International Centre, a university department, in 2004 to handle all international academic affairs such as foreign students' applications, international collaboration, international alumni outreach. University Museum The University Museum, Bharat Kala Bhavan, is an art and archaeological museum on the campus. Established in January 1920, its first chairman was Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore, with his nephew Abanindranath Tagore as the vice-chairman. The museum was expanded and gained prominence with the efforts of Rai Krishnadasa. The museum is best known for its collection of Indian paintings, but also includes archaeological artefacts, textiles and costumes, Indian philately as well as literary and archival materials. The Alice Boner Gallery was also set up at Bharat Kala Bhavan with the assistance of the Alice Boner Foundation in 1989 to mark the birth centenary of Alice Boner. Banaras Hindu University Press Established in 1936 with initial funding from Seth Jugal Kishore Birla, formally the Banaras Hindu University Press and Publication Cell, is the university press of BHU. It comprises two entities, namely BHU Press, and the Publication Cell. While the BHU press publishes books, and journals of the university, the Publication Cell looks after the sales aspect. The BHU Press also publishes Vishwa Panchang prepared by the Faculty of Sanskrit Vidya Dharma Vigyan. Academics Academic entities in the Banaras Hindu University are divided in several types of units with varying independence and budget. Institutes are a cluster of one or more faculties; faculties are a cluster of one or more departments, departments are specifically dedicated to one subject such as political science, or mathematics, or pottery. The university also has special chairs, inter-disciplinary schools, and special centres. Institutes Banaras Hindu University maintains six institutes: The Indian Institute of Technology Banaras Hindu University (IIT-BHU) has its roots in the Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University (IT-BHU). Upon receiving a proposal from the MHRD to convert IT-BHU into an Indian Institutes of Technology, the university's executive council approved the change in 2012. Today the IIT-BHU functions as an autonomous IIT, with certain powers vested in the BHU. IIT provides courses at UG, PG, and PhD level. The Institute of Science, originally established as the Faculty of Science and later upgraded, provides education in zoology, botany, biochemistry, computer science, geography, mathematics, physics, geology, geophysics, chemistry, statistics. The institute also publishes the double-blind peer reviewed Journal of Scientific Research. Established in 1931 as the Institute of Agricultural Research, the Institute of Agricultural Sciences is one of the premier institutes of agricultural sciences in India. The institute comprises 11 departments and four auxiliary units and imparts education through undergraduate, postgraduate, special courses, PhD, and diploma programs. The Institute of Medical Sciences (IMS-BHU), comprising three faculties and one college, is one of the premier medical institutions in India . The institute provides courses at undergraduate, postgraduate, PhD, and diploma levels. It also has the Sir Sunderlal Hospital, and a Trauma centre and Super Speciality Hospital. IMS-BHU is equivalent to the status of AIIMS. The Institute of Environment & Sustainable Development (IESD), which aims to develop and advance the knowledge of technology and processes for sustainable development, was started in 2010. The institute was established in accordance with the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development goal to contribute significantly to the development of appropriate knowledge and competences in the area of sustainable development.Starting as the Department of Management Studies, which was upgraded to Faculty of Management Studies in 1984, Institute of Management Studies (abbreviately referred to FMS-BHU or IM-BHU) was finally upgraded into an institute in 2015. The Institute of Management Studies is the business school of Banaras Hindu University. Among the earliest management schools in India, the institute imparts education at postgraduate and doctoral levels. Alok Kumar Rai, a professor at FMS-BHU is currently the vice-chancellor of the University of Lucknow. Faculties There are nine standalone (which are not under any institute or college) faculties at the Banaras Hindu University: Founded in 1898 as the Central Hindu College, the Faculty of Arts is the oldest faculty of the university. It offers courses in History, Culture, Philosophy, Languages, Literature along with various professional and vocational courses. Due to its nature of age, it is also called the 'Mother faculty' of the university.Established in 1940 as the Department of Commerce, the Faculty of Commerce was fully institutionalized as an independent faculty in 1965. The FoC offers courses at undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral levels in commerce, financial management, foreign trade, and risk & insurance.Established in 1918 as the Teacher's Training College, the Faculty of Education is based out of the Kamachha Complex (outside main campus). The FoE provides B.Ed, B.Ed (Special Visual Impairment), M.Ed and Ph.D in education. The faculty has been publishing its journal National Journal of Education starting 1978.Established in 1922, the Law School offers courses at undergraduate, postgraduate, doctoral, and diploma level in law.The Faculty of Performing Arts offers undergraduate, postgraduate and doctorate courses in performing arts. It was founded in 1950 and had several renowned and award-winning artists and musicians as faculty members. Faculty of Performing Arts was started by Omkarnath Thakur in 1950. It was initially instituted as a college called Music and Fine Arts. In 1966, under Govind Malviya and founding principal Omkarnath Thakur, the college was restructured to a faculty, with three departments (Vocal music, Instrumental music and Musicology). The Faculty of Performing Arts claims to have started the first department of Musicology in India headed by musicologist Prem Lata Sharma. Established in 1918, the Faculty of Sanskrit Vidya Dharma Vijnan (SVDV) offers courses at Shastri (undergraduate), Acharya (postgraduate), Vidyavardhi (doctoral) and diploma levels in Hindu, Jain, and Buddhism practices and philosophies. The Faculty of Visual Arts offers undergraduate and postgraduate courses in applied and visual arts. It was founded in 1916. It includes five departments: Painting, Applied arts, Plastic arts, Pottery and Ceramics, and Textile designing.The Faculty of Social Sciences was bifurcated from the Faculty of Arts in 1971. It offers undergraduate and postgraduate courses in Social science and includes the departments of Economics, History, Political Science, Psychology and Sociology. Other than the departments, there are five centres which carry on the studies in various fields, namely the Centre for the Study of Nepal, Centre for Women's Study and Development, Centre for Integrated Rural Development, Centre for the Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusion Policy and the Malviya Centre for Peace Research. and Special Courses like Master of Personnel Management and Industrial Relations (MPMIR) Colleges and schools Colleges Four colleges in Varanasi are admitted to the privileges of the Banaras Hindu University.The DAV Post Graduate College is a public, co-ed, research college admitted to the privileges of Banaras Hindu University, which was established in 1938. The DAV PG College is also accredited with A+ rating by NAAC. There are three public women's colleges: Arya Mahila Post Graduate College, established in 1956; Vasanta College for Women, which was established in 1913 by Annie Besant; and Vasant Kanya Mahavidyalaya, established in 1954.Mahila Mahavidyalaya (MMV) (transl. Women's College) is an undergraduate level women's college. It was established in 1929 and is located inside the university campus. Schools Three schools in Varanasi are run by the Banaras Hindu University School Board: Ranveer Sanskrit Vidyalaya, Central Hindu Boys School Central Hindu Girls SchoolKendriya Vidyalaya BHU situated inside the university campus is an autonomous body under the Ministry of Education, run by the Kendriya Vidyalya Sangathan. Inter-disciplinary schools School of Biotechnology The School of Biotechnology (SBT) is a center for postgraduate teaching and research under the aegis of Institute of Science of the BHU. It was established in 1986 with funding from the Department of Biotechnology, of the Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India. It offers MSc and PhD programmes in Biotechnology. The interdisciplinary program involves the partnership between the Institute of Science, the Institute of Medical Sciences and the Indian Institute of Technology at BHU. Notable faculty include Arvind Mohan Kayastha. DBT-BHU Interdisciplinary School of Life Sciences The Interdisciplinary School of Life Sciences (ISLS) is a joint initiative of the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India and the BHU. It was established with a grant of INR 238.9 million from the DBT. Research centres Apart from specialised centres directly funded by DBT, DST, ICAR and ISRO, a large number of departments under the Institutes of Sciences, Engineering & Technology and Faculty of Social Sciences receive funding from the DST Fund for Improvement of Science & Technology Infrastructure (FIST) and the University Grants Commission (UGC) Special Assistance Programme (SAP). UGC SAP provides funds under its Centre of Advanced Study (CAS), Department of Special Assistance (DSA) and Departmental Research Support (DRS) programmes.The Centre for Genetic Disorders was established in 2008. This centre is involved in genetic diagnosis and counselling of cases referred from BHU hospital. The centre is engaged in research on various genetic disorders. It offers Ph.D. programmes and a one-year PG diploma course on Chromosomal, Genetic and Molecular Diagnostics.The Centre for Interdisciplinary Mathematical Sciences (CIMS) focuses on research and education in mathematics, modelling and statistics. It was established under the management of the Faculty of Science, with support from the Department of Science and Technology (DST). The centre imparts post-graduate education and research with participation from the Department of Mathematics, Department of Statistics and Department of Computer Science of the Institute of Science and the Department of Applied Mathematics of the IIT-BHU. It regularly organises training programmes, workshops, seminars, and conferences.The Centre of Food Science & Technology (CFST) is an inter-disciplinary research centre with collaboration between the Institute of Agricultural Sciences and the Indian Institute of Technology (BHU) focusing on food processing technology. The Center for Environmental Science and Technology (CEST) is an interdisciplinary university research centre at the Faculty of Science. The CEST conducts three-year M.Sc. (Tech) and Ph.D programmes in Environmental Science & Technology. The centre also works to coordinate environmental programmes of the universityEstablished by the executive council of the university under the Government of India's Namami Gange Mission, the Malaviya Research Centre for Ganga, River Development & Water Resource Management is dedicated to the study of pollution of the Ganges. The centre focuses on the study of river basin ecology, hydrology and pollution management, technology development, socio-economic and culture, and data management. The centre provides training called Ganga Mitra (transl. Ganga's Friends) in pursuance of its objectives on various subjects. Established in 1991, the Malviya Centre for Ethics and Values aims to promote ethics and human values in higher education. The centre provides two-year diploma courses on human values and ethics. The centre has been tasked as the nodal agency for developing and monitoring courses on human values and ethics in all central universities. Other research centres Other research centres of the university include: Centre for Vedic Science Center for Nanotechnology Hydrogen Energy Center UGC Advanced Immunodiagnostic Training and Research Center Centre for Experimental Medicine and Surgery Center for Women's Studies and Development Center for the Study of Nepal Malviya Center for Peace Research Center for Rural Integrated Development Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy Special centres Design Innovation Centre Funded by Department of Higher Education, MHRD, and established in 2015, the Design Innovation Centre(DIC) is a collaboration between IIT-BHU and BHU. The DIC focuses on providing a platform to the students and faculties of the university in order to foster innovation and creative problem solving. The centre also serves Indian Institute of Information Technology, Allahabad, Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Allahabad, and the University of Allahabad. BioNest-BHU Established in 2020 as the InnoResTech Foundation-BHU (called BioNest-BHU) by funding from the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council, BioNest-BHU aims to promote startup and entrepreneurship in sciences, biotechnology, healthcare, agritech, food technology, etc. composed of expert faculty members from IMS-BHU, IAS-BHU, and ISc-BHU. Admissions Starting academic year 2022, the university has confirmed shifting towards the All-India Common University Entrance Test (CUET) for admission to several undergraduate and postgraduate courses, which shall replace the Banaras Hindu University Undergraduate Entrance Test (BHU-UET) and Banaras Hindu University Postgraduate Entrance Test (BHU-PET) exams. Admissions are done according to coursewise eligibility criteria set by the university, merit in the entrance tests, and as per reservation policy of the Government of India. Admissions to undergraduate programs of IIT-BHU are only through JEE Advanced, similarly, admissions to programs of IMS-BHU and FVAS-BHU are only through NEET, and admissions to FMS-BHU is through a mix of Common Admission Test and personal interview, etc.Admissions for PhD are done on the basis of either qualification of National Eligibility Test (NET) by the candidates, or through the scores of Banaras Hindu University Research Entrance Test (BHU-RET). Admissions in Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University are done through PMT exam. Starting 2021, the UET & PET exams have been conducted by the National Testing Agency.Admissions to the Banaras Hindu University are highly competitive and tough with more than 50 applicants for one seat. BHU attracts a substantial number of international students. The university has a separate admission pipeline for international students. Applications from international students wishing to continue their education at BHU are invited directly to the university International Centre.Admissions to the diploma and Special Courses of Study (SCS) are conducted through varying processes depending on the faculty, directly by the university. Banaras Hindu University Entrance Tests After opting for CUET exam for undergraduate and postgraduate courses, the Banaras Hindu University now only conducts the Banaras Hindu University Research Entrance Test (BHU-RET) for admission to the PhD courses.Until 2021, Banaras Hindu University has used to conduct national level BHU-UET for undergraduate courses, and BHU-PET, for postgraduate courses, usually during May–June for admission for which registrations begun on Vasant Panchmi i.e., university foundation day, for over 24 undergraduate and over 100 postgraduate courses. The UET & PET exams were held for 5166 seats in online and offline mode in subject-wise papers. The total exam duration was two hours with multiple-choice questions. Total marks varied with the exam.The entire admission process is conducted by the controller of examinations. Rankings Internationally, BHU was ranked 601–800 in the world by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings of 2022 and 153 in Asia in 2022.In India, the 2022 National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranked BHU sixth among universities and eleventh overall. In NIRF 2022 rankings, BHU ranked fifth in medical, 20 in law, and 50 in management.The university was ranked seventh among universities in India by Outlook India in 2020.Its engineering institute, IIT-BHU, was ranked thirteenth by the NIRF Engineering ranking for 2021. In 2019, IIT-BHU was ranked ninth among engineering colleges in India by The Week.The Faculty of Law, Banaras Hindu University was ranked fifth in India by Outlook India in 2019 and seventh in India by The Week.The Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University was ranked fifth among medical colleges in India in 2022 by NIRF. It was ranked seventh among medical colleges in India in 2020 by India Today, sixth by The Week and eighth by Outlook India. Library The Banaras Hindu University Library system was established from a collection donated by P.K. Telang in the memory of his father Justice Kashinath Trimbak Telang in 1917. The collection was housed in the Telang Hall of the Central Hindu College, Kamachha. In 1921, the library was moved to the Central Hall of the Arts College (now the Faculty of Arts). The present Central Library of BHU was established with a donation from Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III of Baroda. Upon his return from the First round Table Conference, Gaekwad wanted a library built on the pattern of the British Library and its reading room, which was then located in the British Museum. On Malviya's suggestion, he made the donation to build the library on the BHU campus.The Gaekwad Library is a designated Manuscript Conservation Centre (MCC) of the National Mission for Manuscripts, established in 2003.By 1931, the library had built a collection of around 60,000 volumes. The trend of donation of personal and family collection to the library continued as late as the 1940s with the result that it has unique pieces of rarities of books and journals dating back to the 18th century. As of 2011, the BHU Library System consisted of the Central Library and 3 Institute Libraries, 8 Faculty Libraries and over 25 Departmental Libraries, with a collection of at least 1.3 million volumes. The digital library is available to students and staff and provides online access to thousands of journals, besides access to large collections of online resources through the National Informatics Centre's DELNET and UGC's INFLIBNET. Student life Festivals and traditions The Banaras Hindu University observes Saraswati puja day (also known as Vasant Panchami) as its foundation day. Goddess Saraswati is the Hindu goddess of knowledge, music, arts, wisdom and nature. She is also the revered mascot of the university, and is a part of the university seal.There is an intra-university fest, Spandan, where students represent their faculty/institute in various art competitions such as literature (essay-writing, poems, debates), painting, sketches, vocal music, dancing, singing, drama, and mimicry. It is held every year after Vasant Panchami in the month of February or March. Apart from Spandan, each faculty and institute have their own in-house annual festivals. Since 1971, annual flower exhibition is organised on Malaviya Jayanti (Malaviya's birthday - 25 December). The university anthem, Banaras Hindu University Kulgeet, is sung in chorus before the convocation or any other official event begins.Apart from the three national day festivals, the following festivals are celebrated at an official level in the university: Some other festivals celebrated in the Banaras Hindu University at a non-official, students' level include: Holi Milan Samaroh (transl. Holi Meeting Event) is celebrated each year outside Vishwanath Temple. Janmashtami celebrations are held each year. Jhaanki (Tableaus) are prepared by students celebrating the birth of Lord Krishna. Diwali Mahotsav (transl. Diwali Celebrations) are held each year, during which students light-up the campus, hostels, etc. with diyas. Guru Nanak Jayanti, Dev Deepawali, etc. are also celebrated by students. Convocation Dress Academic costume is mandatory for university convocation. The university's academic costume is White Saree with red border, and red blouse for females; and White Kurta with Dhoti or Pyjama for male students. Both academic costumes include Safa and Uttariya. BHU was the first prominent university in India to ditch Western convocation dress for Indian traditional convocation dress, which led to students at other universities demanding the same, and eventually other universities following suit. Clubs and societies BHU has university level Mountaineering Centre, and University Sports Board. Other interest-specific clubs and societies exist at faculty, institute, and college level, like FSS Connect, which is a consortium of all societies and clubs at the Faculty of Social Sciences. In 2022 BHU Connect was introduced, which is a platform that acts as a consortium for different institutes' clubs and societies, as well as act as an umbrella for students run unit to manage clubs, events and ensure help to aspirants and freshers at the Banaras Hindu University. Awards and medals Medals and prizes are awarded at faculty, as well as university level. Each faculty and institute have several in-house awards and medals. Some of the university level medals include: The BHU Chancellor's Medal is given to the student securing highest CGPA in the university. The BHU Medal is given to students who secure the first position in their respective courses (e.g. B.Com.). Late Maharaja Vibhuti Narain Singh Gold Medal is given to the student securing the highest CGPA in the university. Ex-President of India Dr. Shanker Dayal Sharma Gold Medal is awarded to the student exhibiting best character, academic excellence, outstanding co-curricular, extra-curricular, and social services in the university. Bhagwandas Thakurdas Chandwani Gold Medal is given to the student standing first in MBBS at the IMS-BHU. The Wagle Gold Medal is given to the student standing first in M.A. Economics. Student unions and protests Banaras Hindu University does not have an active political student union, but an administrative student council called the Banaras Hindu University Students Council to represent and safeguard the interests of the students.Despite no elections, student wings of major political parties have an active presence on the campus.Organized and unorganized protests are held often in the campus due to the vast majority of students. The most prominent protest in the last few years have been the Banaras Hindu University women's rights protest. Gallery of notable alumni and faculty Alumni and faculty of the Banaras Hindu University, called BHUians and महामना के मानस पुत्र/पुत्री (transl. Soulful Sons/Daughters of Mahamana), have gained prominence in India and across the world in almost all fields of arts, science, and social work. Two former Presidents of India, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan and A. P. J. Abdul Kalam have worked and taught at the university. Other famous administrators include Sunder Lal, K. L. Shrimali, and Moti Lal Dhar.Past and present administrators, visiting faculty and faculty Alumni include: In popular culture 2019 Hindi film Super 30 starring Hrithik Roshan was shot in BHU library. See also List of universities in India List of educational institutions in Varanasi References Further reading Dar, S.L. ; Somaskandan, S. (1966). History Of The Banaras Hindu University. Banaras Hindu University Press. ISBN 8185305226. Renold, Leah. A Hindu Education: Early Years of the Banaras Hindu University. Oxford University Press. External links Official website Safdarjung Hospital is a multi-specialty hospital, and the largest central government hospital in India if measured by bed strength. It is associated with Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and located in the heart of New Delhi on the Ring Road, opposite to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). History Until the inception of All India Institute of Medical Science in 1956, Safdarjung Hospital was the only tertiary care hospital in Delhi. In 1962, it became a centre of training and teaching for post-graduate students of the University of Delhi. From 1973 to 1990, the hospital and its faculty was associated with University College of Medical Sciences. But with the establishment of Indraprastha University in 1998, the hospital was later merged with the Vardhman Mahavir Medical College. Academics The courses offered by the institute are: M.B.B.S. (Annual intake of 150 students) MD/MS DM/M.Ch.DNB BSc (Hons.) in Nursing (Annual intake of 70 students in BSc Nursing) Medical facilities Laparoscopic cholecystectomy The hospital has an eminent faculty of Surgeons in the department of Surgery. As prevalent, Cholecystectomy (removal of gall bladder ) was being contemplated by the conventional method using a 5 to 8 inch incision. This resulted in considerable postoperative pain, increased hospital stay for more than 7–10 days, a delayed ambulatory period and prolonged recovery time. In an attempt to minimise the above drawbacks of conventional Cholecystectomy an attempt was made with MiniLap Cholecystectomy through a single 6-8 cms incision. This was performed in 150 cases and the results were presented at the International College of Surgeons conference in London in November 1994 by Dr. N. C. Bose, Consultant and Head of Department of Surgery, Safdarjung Hospital. However, this procedure was abandoned shortly thereafter due to its limitations of difficult dissection. The search for a technically safe process which was easier to perform and enhanced patients’ comfort, led to the introduction of Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy through keyhole incision. This high-tech surgery was contemplated through single or multiple keyhole incisions resulting in minimal postoperative pain, early ambulation and hospital discharge within 24 hrs’ with fastest recovery. In Safdarjung Hospital, Dr. N. C. Bose, Consultant & Head of Surgery, along with his junior colleague Dr. S. V. Arya, Specialist in Surgery, were instrumental in the establishment of Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy operative procedure in February 1994. The duo performed 100 cases without any morbidity or mortality until June 1997. This procedure commonly known as Lap Chole is currently a gold standard for Cholecystectomy. History American troops came to India during the Second World War and landed at the nearby Safdarjung airport, the only airport in Delhi at that time and then known as Willingdon Airfield. There was no hospital in the area where this hospital is situated. Some barracks were rapidly constructed south of the airport to establish a medical centre for American troops fighting in this region. The hospital was well equipped, with x-ray machine, a laboratory and other facilities for various emergency procedures. After the Second World War was over, America handed over the hospital to the Indian government and it is now known as Safdarjung Hospital. Later a medical college was started there by Central Government Health Scheme of the Health Ministry. AIIMS was started in 1956 but there was no medical college in old Delhi until 1959 when Maulana Azad Medical College was started at Delhi Gate. References External links Safdarjung Hospital & Medical College Official website Medical psychology or medico-psychology is the application of psychological principles to the practice of medicine, primarily drug-oriented, for both physical and mental disorders. A medical psychologist who holds prescriptive authority for specific psychiatric medications and other pharmaceutical drugs must first obtain specific qualifications in psychopharmacology. A trained medical psychologist, or clinical psychopharmacologist who has prescriptive authority, is equated with a mid-level provider who has the authority to prescribe psychotropic medication such as antidepressants for mental health disorders. However, a medical psychologist does not automatically equate with a psychologist who has the authority to prescribe medication. In fact, most medical psychologists do not prescribe medication and do not have the authority to do so.Medical psychologists apply psychological theories, scientific psychological findings, and techniques of psychotherapy, behavior modification, cognitive, interpersonal, family, and lifestyle therapy to improve the psychological and physical health of the patient. Psychologists with postdoctoral specialty training as medical psychologists are the practitioners with refined skills in clinical psychology, health psychology, behavioral medicine, psychopharmacology, and medical science. Highly qualified and postgraduate specialized doctors are trained for service in primary care centers, hospitals, residential care centers, and long-term care facilities and in multidisciplinary collaboration and team treatment. Medical psychology specialty The field of medical psychology may include predoctoral training in the disciplines of health psychology, rehabilitation psychology, pediatric psychology, neuropsychology, and clinical psychopharmacology, as well as subspecialties in pain management, primary care psychology, and hospital-based (or medical school-based) psychology as the foundation psychological training to qualify for proceeding to required postdoctoral specialty training to qualify to become a diplomate/specialist in medical psychology. To be a specialist in medical psychology, a psychologist must hold board certification from the American Board of Medical Psychology (ABMP), which requires a doctorate degree in psychology, a license to practice psychology, a postdoctoral graduate degree or other acceptable postdoctoral didactic training, a residency in medical psychology, submission of a work product for examination, and a written and oral examination by the American Board of Medical Psychology. The American Board of Medical Psychology maintains a distinction between specialists and psychopharmacological psychologists or those interested in practicing one of the related psychological disciplines in primary care centers. The term medical psychologist is not an umbrella term, and many other specialties in psychology such as health psychology, embracing the biopsychosocial paradigm (Engel, 1977) of mental/physical health and extending that paradigm to clinical practice through research and the application of evidenced-based diagnostic and treatment procedures are akin to the specialty and are prepared to practice in integrated and primary care settings. Adopting the biopsychosocial paradigm, the field of medical psychology has recognized the Cartesian assumption that the body and mind are separate entities is inadequate, representing as it does an arbitrary dichotomy that works to the detriment of healthcare. The biopsychosocial approach reflects the concept that the psychology of an individual cannot be understood without reference to that individual's social environment. For the medical psychologist, the medical model of disease cannot in itself explain complex health concerns any more than a strict psychosocial (LeVine & Orabona Foster, 2010) explanation of mental and physical health can in itself be comprehensive. Duties Medical psychologists and some psychopharmacologists are trained and equipped to modify physical disease states and the actual cytoarchitecture and functioning of the central nervous and related systems using psychological and pharmacological techniques (when allowed by statute), and to provide prevention for the progression of disease having to do with poor personal and lifestyle choices and conceptualization, behavioral patterns, and chronic exposure to the effects of negative thinking, choosing, attitudes, and negative contexts. The specialty of medical psychology includes training in psychopharmacology and, in states providing statutory authority, may prescribe psychoactive substances as one technique in a larger treatment plan which includes psychological interventions. The medical psychologists and psychopharmacologists who serve in states that have not yet modernized their psychology prescribing laws may evaluate patients and recommend appropriate psychopharmacological techniques in collaboration with a state-authorized prescriber. Medical psychologists and psychopharmacologists who are not board certified strive to integrate the major components of an individual's psychological, biological, and social functioning and are designed to contribute to that person's well-being in a way that respects the natural interface among these components. The whole is greater than the sum of its parts when it comes to providing comprehensive and sensible behavioral healthcare and the medical psychologist is uniquely qualified to collaborate with physicians that are treating the patient's physical illnesses. Certifications The Academy of Medical Psychology defines medical psychology as a specialty trained at the postdoctoral level and designed to deliver advanced diagnostic and clinical interventions in medical and healthcare facilities utilizing the knowledge and skills of clinical psychology, health psychology, behavioral medicine, psychopharmacology and basic medical science. The Academy of Medical Psychology makes a distinction between the prescribing psychologist who is a psychologist with advanced training in psychopharmacology and may prescribe medicine or consult with a physician or other prescriber to diagnose mental illness and select and recommend appropriate psychoactive medicines. Medical psychologists are prepared to do the psychopharmacology consulting or prescribing, but also must have training which prepares them for functioning with behavioral and lifestyle components of physical disease and functioning in or in consultation with multidisciplinary healthcare teams in primary care centers or community hospitals in addition to traditional roles in the treatment of mental illness and substance abuse disorders. The specialty of medical psychology and this distinction from psychopharmacologist is recognized by the National Alliance of Professional Psychology Providers (the psychology national practitioner association; see www.nappp.org).The specialty of medical psychology has established a specialty board certification, American Board of Medical Psychology and Academy of Medical Psychology (www.amphome.org) requiring a doctoral degree in psychology and extensive postdoctoral training in the specialty and the passage of an oral and written examination. Although the Academy of Medical Psychology defines medical psychology as a specialty, has established a specialty board certification, and is recognized by the national psychology practitioner association (www.nappp.org), there is a split between NAPPP and the American Psychological Association in that they do not currently recognize the same specialties. APA represents scientists, academics, and practitioners and NAPPP represents only practitioners. However, Louisiana, having a unique definition of medical psychology does recognize the national distinction between medical psychology as a specialty and a clinical psychopharmacology specialty and restricts the term and practice of medical psychology by statute (the Medical Psychology Practice Act) as a profession of the health sciences with prescriptive authority. The American Psychological Association does not recognize that the term medical psychology has, as a prerequisite, nor should the term be equated with having, prescriptive authority and has established a specialty in clinical psychopharmacology. In 2006, the APA recommended that the education and training of psychologists, who are specifically pursuing one of several prerequisites for prescribing medication, integrate instruction in the biological sciences, clinical medicine, and pharmacology into a formalized program of postdoctoral education. In 2009, the National Alliance of Professional Providers in Psychology recognized the education and training specified by the American Board of Medical Psychology (www.amphome.org; ABMP) and the Academy of Medical Psychology as the approved standards for postgraduate training and examination and qualifications in the nationally recognized specialty in medical psychology. Since then, numerous hospitals, primary care centers, and other health facilities have recognized the ABMP standards and qualifications for privileges in healthcare facilities and verification of specialty status. The following Clinical Competencies are identified as essential in the education and training of psychologists, wishing to pursue prescriptive authority. These recommended prerequisites are not required or specifically recommended by APA for the training and education of medical psychologists not pursuing prerequisites for prescribing medication. Basic Science: anatomy, & physiology, biochemistry; Neurosciences: neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, neurochemistry; Physical Assessment and Laboratory Exams: physical assessment, laboratory and radiological assessment, medical terminology; Clinical Medicine and Pathophysiology: pathophysiology with emphasis on the principal physiological systems, clinical medicine, differential diagnosis, clinical correlation and case studies, chemical dependency, chronic pain management; Clinical and Research Pharmacology and Psychopharmacology: pharmacology, clinical pharmacology, pharmacogenetics, psychopharmacology, developmental psychopharmacology; Clinical Pharmacotherapeutics: professional, ethical and legal issues, combined therapies and their interactions, computer-based aids to practice, pharmacoepidemiology; Research: methodology and design of psychopharmacology research, interpretation and evaluation, FDA drug development and other regulatory processes.The 2006 APA recommendations also include supervised clinical experience intended to integrate the above seven knowledge domains and assess competencies in skills and applied knowledge. The national psychology practitioner association (NAPPP; www.nappp.org) and national certifying body (Academy of Medical Psychology; www.amphome.org) have established the national training, examination, and specialty practice criteria and guidelines in the specialty of medical psychology and have established a national journal in the specialty. Such certifying bodies view psychopharmacology training (either to prescribe or consult) as one component of the training of a specialist in medical psychology, but recognize that training and specialized skills in other aspects of the treatment of behavioral aspects of medical illness and mental illness affecting physical illness is essential to practice at the specialty level in medical psychology. See also Prescriptive authority for psychologists movement Health psychology Rehabilitation psychology Psychiatry Pain Psychology Medical ethics References External links https://web.archive.org/web/20100705104932/http://www.health-psych.org/MedPsych.cfm https://www.apadivisions.org/division-55 American Psychological Association - Division 55 - Society for Prescribing Psychology http://nappp.org/ National Alliance of Professional Psychology Providers http://www.amphome.org/ Academy of Medical Psychology http://www.abbhp.org/ American Board of Behavioral Health Practice http://www.nibhq.org/ National Institute For Behavioral Health Quality https://www.apadivisions.org/division-55/councils/training-council Postdoctoral training programs in clinical psychopharmacology https://www.apa.org/ed/graduate/specialize/clinical-psychopharmacology?_ga=2.105171523.1524242252.1640627274-422746752.1639255355 Specialty of clinical psychopharmacology https://www.asppb.net/page/PEPExam Psychopharmacology Examination for Psychologists (PEP) https://www.apadivisions.org/division-55/publications Division 55 newsletter The Tablet http://www.medicalpsychology.nl Department Medical Psychology Tilburg University The Netherlands Shrimant Rajmata Vijayaraje Scindia Medical College is a full-fledged tertiary Medical college in shivpuri, Madhya Pradesh. It was established in the year 2018. The college imparts the degree of Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (MBBS). Nursing and para-medical courses are also offered. The college is affiliated to Madhya Pradesh Medical Science University and is recognized by Medical Council of India. The selection to the college is done on the basis of merit through National Eligibility and Entrance Test. Location Shivpuri is in the Gwalior division of northwest Madhya Pradesh. It is 121 km from the city of Gwalior. The medical college is situated on the Agra Bombay Highway. Admission The college has an annual intake of 100 candidates for M.B., B.S. (Bachelor's degree in Medicine and Surgery. Departments Anatomy Physiology Biochemistry Pharmacology Pathology Microbiology Forensic Medicine Community Medicine Ophthalmology Otolaryngology Medicine Surgery Obstetrics & Gynecology Pediatrics Anesthesiology Radiology Dermatology Orthopedics Psychiatry Affiliation The medical college is affiliated to Madhya Pradesh Medical Science University, Jabalpur and is attached to District Hospital, Shivpuri Inauguration Jyotiraditya Scindia, Member of Parliament, officially inaugurated the Government Medical College, Shivpuri on 5 March 2019. Dr. Professor Jyoti Bindal is the first and founder dean. References External links Official website The Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences (Danish: Det Sundhedsvidenskabelige Fakultet) at the University of Copenhagen houses 13 departments, 31 centres, five schools, four hospitals, and three libraries.The Faculty educates students in the areas of Human Health and Medical Sciences, Oral Health Sciences, Pharmaceutical Sciences, and Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science. History The Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences at the University of Copenhagen was established in its current form in 1992 from the merging of Københavns Tandlægehøjskole (The Dental School of Copenhagen) and Det Lægevidenskabelige Fakultet (The Medical Faculty). The School of Medical Sciences' history dates back to 1479, when the University of Copenhagen was founded. The University of Oslo Faculty of Medicine was founded in 1814 as a de facto Norwegian (partial) continuation of the medical faculty in Copenhagen, as a result of the Napoleonic Wars and the breakup of Denmark-Norway by the foreign powers. The medical faculty in Oslo therefore shared many of its traditions with the Copenhagen faculty. In 1842 the Faculty of Medicine and the Kirurgisk Akademi (Academy of Surgery) were merged to form the Faculty of Medical Science. An integration of the health education programs was discussed in the late 1970s, and a decade later, the Faculty of Medical Science and the School of Dentistry were merged to form the Faculty of Health Sciences. Buildings built during this time period include the Panum Building. As of January 2016, Panum is the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences' largest building complex and houses six of the Faculty's thirteen departments.In 2005, the Center for Health and Society (Danish: Center for Sundhed og Samfund, abbr. CSS) was opened in the former Copenhagen Municipal Hospital in central Copenhagen. As of January 2016, the CSS houses most of the Department of Public Health and the School of Global Health.The School of Oral Health Sciences operates under the Department of Odontology. Its history dates back the early 1890s, when Denmark's first school of dentistry was founded on Nygade. The school moved its location twice, first in 1894 to Stormgade where the facilities were shared with the Teachers College and a school museum, and in 1928 to Trommesalen. In 1941, the school moved to newly constructed facilities on Jagtvej and changed its name to the School of Dentistry (Tandlægehøjskolen).During the 1980s, the School of Dentistry was merged into the University of Copenhagen and moved to the recently erected Panum Building. Out of the 200, 30 seats are filled through the AIQ (All India Quota) of NEET exam conducted by the NTA and the remaining 170 seats are filled through the same exam by OJEE. The acceptance rate to this course is 0.2% (1 in every 500 aspirants).The college offers 74 places in postgraduate courses. The admission is through Odisha Post Graduate medical Examination and at the national level through All India Post Graduate Medical Entrance Examination (AIPGMEE). 50% of the places are reserved for in-service candidates. The courses award the degrees of MD or MS, in various fields. The college also offers diploma studies in various paramedical fields. Students' life Students are represented by an undergraduate students’ union, elected annually by a campus-wide election from the students of the fourth year in March–April. The office holders of the students’ union organise various programmes, activities and inter-class competitions throughout the year which culminates with the annual function of the union in December. Postgraduate students are represented by a similar union, known as the Junior Doctors’ Association. The inter-medical college festival, Euphoria, is organized every three years. A large number of students gather for a four-day extravaganza and participate in various cultural, dramatic, literary and sports competitions. PRAYAS is a non-profit organization formed by the students which strives to provide proper medical treatment to financially challenged persons by providing free medicines and also to create a large pool of donors to counter the perennial shortage of blood units in the hospital's blood bank. Notable alumni B. K. Misra – Neurosurgeon, recipient of Dr. B. C. Roy Award, the highest medical honour in India. Sambit Patra – Indian Politician See also List of medical colleges in India Education in India References External links Official website Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) is a higher Medical education institution in Nashik, Maharashtra, India. History The university was established on 3 June 1998 by the state Government of Maharashtra through an ordinance. The State Legislature passed the ordinance and the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences was declared open by the governor of Maharashtra on June 10, 1998. All colleges and institutions imparting education in health science in the state of Maharashtra have been affiliated to this new university under Section 6(3) of the Act. Academics Postgraduate courses awarded are versatile including Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) in various areas, Master of Surgery (M.S. ), as well as Master of Science (M.Sc.) courses and other PG diplomas. Affiliated medical colleges Bachelor of Medicine Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) Medical colleges affiliated with the university, as of July 2019: See also Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University Baba Farid University of Health Sciences Dr. YSR University of Health Sciences Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Uttarakhand Medical Education University Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences Kerala University of Health Sciences Madhya Pradesh Medical Science University Odisha University of Health Sciences Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences Rajasthan University of Health Sciences Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences Srimanta Sankaradeva University of Health Sciences Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University West Bengal University of Health Sciences References External links Maharashtra University of Health Sciences Maharashtra-DMER Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences may refer to Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Adilabad Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Kadapa Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Ongole Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Srikakulam (now Government Medical College, Srikakulam) The Institute for Medical Engineering and Science or IMES is a research institute at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology that aims to combine engineering, medicine, and science to solve challenges in human health. The institute was established in 2012 and is currently directed by Elazer Edelman. Some core faculty members include Alex K. Shalek, Emery Brown, and Ellen Roche. IMES serves to bring together scientific advances with clinical medicine by serving as the point of intersection with major hospitals and industry partners. IMES is also the MIT home for the Harvard–MIT Program in Health Sciences and Technology. References External links Official website The Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) is a leading medical training institute in Pune, India, in the state of Maharashtra. The college is managed by the Indian Armed Forces.Established in May 1948 as a post-graduate teaching institution after World War II on the recommendation of the BC Roy Committee, remnants of various Indian Army Medical Corps units were amalgamated to create the Armed Forces Medical Services. The AFMC undergraduate wing was established on 4 August 1962, which is also celebrated annually as AFMC Day by its alumni. The institution primarily imparts training to medical undergraduates and postgraduates, dental postgraduates, nursing cadets and paramedical staff. Patient care forms an integral part of its training curriculum and the attached hospitals benefits from the expertise available at AFMC. The institution is responsible for providing the entire pool of specialists and super specialists to the Armed Forces. The college is also involved in conducting research in various medical subjects as well as those aspects which would affect the morale and performance of the Armed Forces both in war and peace. History The facility was originally Set up in 1944 by Lt. Colonel Darshan Singh Vohra to provide artificial limb, appliances and deliver rehabilitative care to the gallant soldiers of the Indian Army, who lost their limbs in combat. Post independence the AFMC was expanded further in 1948 in the immediate post-world war period. On the recommendations of the BC Roy Committee, remnants of the Indian Army Medical Corps units were amalgamated into one unit to create the Armed Forces Medical College. Over the past 50 years, it has grown in its functions. The Graduate Wing of AFMC was established on 4 August 1962. The aim of starting this wing was to increase the intake of medical graduates into the Armed Forces. The graduate wing was affiliated to the University of Pune until 1999 but presently affiliated to the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences. The college is recognised by the Medical Council of India for conducting a five-year and six-month teaching programme leading to MBBS degree. The first batch passed out in Oct 1966, under one of its founding members, Commandant Maj Gen Noshir Karani. General Karani was Commandant till 1969. It also conducts post graduate courses in many disciplines. One of the first plastic surgery departments in India was established at the college in the early 1950s. On May 1, 2023 In a press conference director general Lt Gen Daljit Singh, told that AFMC will get the status of Institute of national importance in the coming yearsOn December 1, 2023 during its platinum jubilee year , President Droupadi Murmu , granted the President's Colour also known as 'Rashtrapati Ki Nishaan' to Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC).It is the highest honour conferred upon any military unit. Admission A total of 150 students are admitted for undergraduate MBBS course, 115 boys and 30 girls and five foreign nationals. Admission is on the basis of the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (formerly through the AIPMT exam), followed by an interview and medical examination . Ten seats are reserved for ST/SC candidates. Students are not allowed to be married or to marry during the course, and are liable to serve in the medical services of the Armed Forces, on successful completion of MBBS, for seven years. Residence halls The college is fully residential with separate hostels for boys and girls. Residence in the hostels is mandatory for all the cadets for the entire duration of the course. The Boys Hostel is housed in a building which was built in 1965 and comprises 6 blocks of three floors each. There are a total of 277 rooms of approximately 8 square metres (86 sq ft) area (single-seaters) and 162 rooms of approximately 18.5 m2 (199 sq ft) area (double seaters). All the rooms are fully furnished. The girls' hostel was constructed in 1984 and can accommodate 130 cadets in 70 single-seater and 30 double seater rooms. The new Boys Hostel has four blocks with four floors each having 18 spacious rooms with balconies. The officers' floors for officers pursuing their post graduation courses have been incorporated into the boys hostel. Subsidised messing is provided to all medical cadets. The Central Cadets Mess was opened in 2009 for all cadets to dine together. Infrastructure There are facilities for sports, including tennis, squash, basketball, and a swimming pool. Canteen facilities for defence personnel are also extended to the medical cadets. It has two auditoria named Dhanvantri and Bharadwaj where high-profile medical conferences are held. AFMC also works as a hospital for civilians and is collaborated with the command hospital (SC). Rankings AFMC was ranked 11 among government medical colleges in India in 2022 by Outlook India and third among medical colleges in India in 2022 by India Today. and Non-academics AFMC provides broad-based non-academic exposure too. Students are encouraged to participate in sports and many have excelled in this arena. There are a large number of societies and clubs like the Student Scientific Society, Computer Club, Hobbies Club, Debating Club, Adventure Club, Dance Club and Musimatics. where students can pursue extra-curricular interests. They are encouraged to participate in competitions and conferences all over the country for development of all round personality and officer like qualities. They have also won many laurels in debates, quiz contests and youth festivals in Pune and outside. Over 6000 doctors have graduated from AFMC until now. Recently the entire hostel has been given WiFi connectivity. Research Various departments take up research projects either under departmental sponsorship or under the auspices of Armed Forces Medical Research Committee (AFMRC). Apart from service-oriented projects, research in clinical and laboratory subjects is also carried out. AFMC has the facility for animal house, hatcheries for disease producing insects, and a virology and bacteriology bank for these purposes. AFMC is a research and referral centre for confirmation of disease, identification of pathogens (viral and bacterial) and classification of blood disorders. AFMC acts as a referral centre, designated by WHO for certain diseases i.e. HIV-regional laboratory and centre for rickettsial diseases. Affiliations Affiliated hospitals include Command Hospital (Southern Command), Military Hospital (Cardio Thoracic Centre), Artificial Limb Centre and Military Hospital (Khadki). The college is affiliated to Maharashtra University of Health Sciences. Notable alumni Punita Arora, first woman to reach the rank of Lieutenant General in the Indian Army Kamala Balakrishnan, immunologist, expert on histocompatibility and transplantation Padmavathy Bandopadhyay, first woman Air Marshal of the Indian Air Force. Madhuri Kanitkar, third woman to be promoted to Three-star rank. Arti Sarin, served in all three branches of the Indian Armed Forces. Surendra Poonia, medal-winner in four consecutive world championships in power-lifting Soumya Swaminathan, paediatrician, Chief Scientist, World Health Organisation (WHO), Deputy Director General of Programmes (DDP) of World Health Organization Akhilesh Pandey, notable proteomicist. See also Indian National Defence University Military Academies in India Sainik school References External links Official website https://www.afmc.nic.in/Departments/Hospitals/alc.html College dramatics' YouTube channel Nagasaki University (長崎大学, Nagasaki daigaku) is a national university of Japan. Its nickname is Chōdai (長大). The main campus is located in Bunkyo-machi, Nagasaki City, Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan. History Nagasaki University was established in 1949 by incorporating several national institutions, namely, Nagasaki Medical College (including College Hospital and College of Pharmaceutical Sciences), Nagasaki College of Economics, Nagasaki Normal School, Nagasaki Youth Normal School and Nagasaki High School.The new main campus (Bunkyo Campus) was formerly a plant site of Mitsubishi Arms Factory (Ohashi Plant). Nagasaki Medical College The oldest of the predecessors was Nagasaki Medical College. It was founded in November 1857 as Medical Training Institute (医学伝習所, Igaku denshūsho) by the branch office of Tokugawa Shogunate. The first professor was J. L. C. Pompe van Meerdervoort, and the institute was one of the first western-style (not Kampō) medical schools in Japan. In 1861 the hospital was founded, and after Meiji Restoration the school became a public (prefectural, later national) medical school. It was developed into Nagasaki Vocational School of Medicine (長崎医学専門学校, Nagasaki igaku senmon gakkō) in 1901, then into Nagasaki Medical College (長崎医科大学, Nagasaki ika daigaku) in 1923. After Japan participated in the Pacific War, the medical college added several institutes for the war, such as Temporary College of Medicine (1940) and East Asia Research Institute of Endemics (1942, Institute of Tropical Medicine today). On August 9, 1945 the college was heavily damaged by the atomic bomb, because it was located only 500 to 700 meters away from the hypocenter. Over 800 professors, students and medical workers were killed. The college was moved to Omura in September 1945, and then to Isahaya in 1946. The old campus (Sakamoto Campus) was restored later in 1950, after the college was integrated into Nagasaki University. Institute of Tropical Medicine The Institute of Tropical Medicine (長崎大学熱帯医学研究所], NEKKEN or NUITM) was originally founded under Nagasaki Medical College to perform basic and applied studies on endemic diseases in East Asia. In 1949, the institute merged with other facilities to form Nagasaki University under the new ruling of the National School Establishment Law.Since 1946, researchers at NUITM have conducted fundamental and applied studies on tropical and emerging diseases. This includes infectious disease epidemiology studies and vaccine and therapeutics development against infectious diseases. Researchers at NUITM have established several international research partnerships, including in Vietnam the Philippines, and Kenya, to study emerging and re-emerging diseases. The institute has research stations in Vietnam and Kenya, and of note, the field research conducted in Kenya has inspired a popular song, novel, and charity foundation, and has been featured in a film, The Lion Standing in the Wind.As one of the world's leading institutes for training and research in tropical medicine and health care, it is stipulated as a Joint Usage/ Research Center under the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) to spear-head academic research, and is a member of the Japan Infectious Disease Research Consortium that includes Institute of Medical Science (Japan), Osaka University and Hokkaido University.With over one hundred graduate students enrolled, NUITM carries out an extensive capacity strengthening program in counterpart countries, and collaborates with a large network of institutions in Africa, South America, and Asia through MEXT, Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), Official Development Assistance (Japan) (ODA), Japan Agency for Medical Research and Development (AMED) and the WHO. The institute acts as a WHO Collaborating Center for Research and Reference of Tropical and Emerging Viral Diseases and as the WHO's reference laboratories, providing confirmatory testing for COVID-19.In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the institute led the International Infectious Disease Consortium against COVID-19 (grant-in-aid emergency fund), an international research collaboration to develop countermeasures against the novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2. Researchers at NUITM, in collaboration with local public health institutes, initiated efforts in diagnosing SARS-CoV-2, including developing new diagnostic tools. Technology transfer and collaboration with Southeast Asian counterparts has shed light on how the disease spread in Japan and Southeast Asia. Nagasaki College of Economics Another notable predecessor was Nagasaki College of Economics. It was founded in March 1905 as Nagasaki Higher Commercial School (長崎高等商業学校, Nagasaki kōtō shōgyō gakkō). It was the fourth national commercial college in Japan, after Tokyo (1887), Kobe (1902) and Yamaguchi (February 1905), and aimed at educating students so that they could engage in business with China, Korea and Southeast Asia. In 1917 it added the Advanced Course for Trade (one-year course), and the building for the course was built in 1919 (Keirin Hall today). In 1944 it was renamed Nagasaki College of Economics (長崎経済専門学校, Nagasaki keizai senmon gakkō). On August 9, 1945 although Nagasaki underwent the atomic bombing, the college buildings were protected by Mt. Kompira. Its campus (Katafuchi Campus) has been used by the Faculty of Economics, Nagasaki University. Undergraduate schools Bunkyo CampusSchool of Global Humanities and Social Sciences Faculty of Education Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Environmental Studies Faculty of FisheriesSakamoto CampusSchool of Medicine School of DentistryKatafuchi CampusFaculty of Economics Graduate schools Graduate School of Education (Master's courses only) Graduate School of Economics Graduate School of Science and Technology Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences Graduate School of International Health Development (Master's courses only) Graduate School of Global Humanities and Social Sciences Research institutes Atomic Bomb Disease Institute, Nagasaki University Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences Collaboration and MoU with foreign universities and institutes Islamic University, Bangladesh (MoU) London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine Controversy In April 2019, Nagasaki University came under fire for banning smokers from their campus. This would prevent teachers from getting hired. Many smokers and non-smokers felt that the measure was discriminatory against smokers and their personal lives. Many also argued that smoking is not relevant to their employment. Several people have filed lawsuits against the university for discrimination. However, no lawsuit has been currently settled. Notable alumni Takashi Nagai, physician specializing in radiology, an A-bomb victim. Osamu Shimomura, organic chemist and marine biologist, awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2008 for his discovery and development of green fluorescent protein with two American chemists. See also Tropical disease Neglected tropical diseases WHO References External links Nagasaki University Suzuka University of Medical Science (鈴鹿医療科学大学, Suzuka iryō kagaku daigaku) is a private university in Suzuka, Mie, Japan, established in 1991. The present name was adopted in 1998. External links Official website (in Japanese) The Institute Of Medical Sciences (IMS-BHU) is one of the Six institutes of Banaras Hindu University in Varanasi, India and comprises three faculties, Faculty of Medicine, Dental Sciences, and Ayurveda.The Institute of Medical Sciences is the medical school of the university. Like other institutions forming BHU, it is residential and co-educational. History The Institute started functioning as College of Medical Sciences in 1960 with nine departments of Modern Medicine and eight departments of Ayurveda, under the leadership of K. N. Udupa, the Founder Director of the institute.In 1971, the College of Medical Sciences, was upgraded to Institute of Medical Sciences. Today it has 33 departments of Modern Medicine including 10 Departments of Super-specialties, four Departments of dentistry, eleven Departments of Ayurveda and a school of Nursing. Academics The institute is affiliated to Banaras Hindu University and offers medical and paramedical courses at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels. Admission in BAMS, MBBS and BDS courses is on the basis of merit through NEET. Admission in Nursing courses is through exams conducted on university level. It has 45 departments under three faculties. Campus The campus of IMS lies at the front part of university. The campus contains the medical college, the hospital, the student and resident hostels, the staff quarters, a post office, a temple (BHU Vishwanathji), playgrounds and sporting fields. While the hospital section of the campus is typically crowded and busy, the residential part of the campus is quiet and idyllic punctuated with small parks. Organization IMS is not under the direct administrative control of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, but under Banaras Hindu University, an autonomous central university. The three functions of the institute are to impart quality education in undergraduate and postgraduate medical and paramedical courses, to be a trend-setter in medical research and to offer patient care of high order.The institute is headed by the Director as the chief executive charged with responsibility of running the institute and the hospital. The Deans of the faculties help the Director in coordinating academic activities of the institute, including teaching and research. There are 28 academic departments headed by the Heads of the Departments. Ancillary hospital service is under the direct supervision of the Medical Superintendent with the individual units supervised by technical heads. Rankings The IMS-BHU was ranked fifth among medical college in India in the National Institutional Ranking Framework 2022, sixth in 2021 by India Today and second in 2021 by Outlook India. Student life The campus has three hostels for undergraduate men named Punarvasu Atrey Hostel, Ruiya Medical Hostel and Dhanwntri Hostel, and four hostels for postgraduate men named Old P. G. Hostel, New P.G. Hostel, Sushruta hostel Ruiya Annexe. and Married Doctors Hostel. Undergraduate and postgraduate women live in New Doctors Girls Hostel and Nagarjuna hostel respectively. All hostels run their own messes. Awards and Medals Bhagwandas Thakurdas Chandwani Gold Medal is given to the student standing first in MBBS at the IMS-BHU. Student activities The inter-collegiate cultural, literary and sports festival of IMS is called Elixir and is held in mid-March every year. Both the undergraduate men's hostels and the undergraduate women's hostel hold annual hostel days. Notable alumni Sumita Prabhakar Sapam Budhichandra Singh Radha Mohan Das Agarwal Mohamed Ayub Ram Harsh Singh Upgradation Government of India had decided to upgrade the institute on lines of All India Institute of Medical Sciences as part of phase-1 of Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) whereby the Central Government will bear 80% of the cost of up gradation and 20% cost will be borne by State Government. The up-gradation work is complete. See also List of educational institutions in Varanasi References External links Official website Golestan University of Medical Sciences (Persian: دانشگاه علوم پزشکی و خدمات بهداشتی درمانی گلستان) is a public university in Gorgan, Iran. The university has six faculties including medicine, dentistry, health care, nursing, paramedicine, and Medical Modern Technologies. Schools Medicine (founded in 1991) Dentistry (founded in 1991) Health care (founded in 1991) Nursing (founded in 1991) Paramedicine (founded in 1991) Medical Modern Technologies (founded in 1991) Research Centers Cancer Research Center Cellular and Molecular Biology Research Center Infertility and Reproductive Health Research Center Nursing Care Research Center Oral Health Research Center International Journals Jorjani Biomedicine Journal: http://jorjanijournal.goums.ac.ir/ Journal of Clinical and Basic Research: http://jcbr.goums.ac.ir/ Journal of Gorgan University of Medical Sciences: http://goums.ac.ir/journal/index.php Journal of Research Development in Nursing and Midwifery: http://nmj.goums.ac.ir/ Medical Laboratory Journal (MLJ): http://mlj.goums.ac.ir/ Archived 2021-05-10 at the Wayback Machine See also Higher education in Iran References External links Official Website of the Golestan University of Medical Sciences Archived 2021-03-21 at the Wayback Machine The various academic faculties, departments, and institutes of the University of Oxford are organised into four divisions, each with its own Head and elected board. They are the Humanities Division; the Social Sciences Division; the Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences Division; and the Medical Sciences Division. Humanities Division The Humanities Division has received considerable praise for its work at the forefront of digitising the Humanities. The Humanities Division has been physically expanding into the new Radcliffe Observatory Quarter in Oxford.The current Head of the Humanities Division is Professor Daniel Grimley, who was appointed in January 2022. Professor Sally Shuttleworth was Head from 2006 to 2011, Professor Shearer West served as Head between August 2011 and 2015, and Chris Wickham until 2018.The Division contains the following faculties and departments: Rothermere American Institute Ruskin School of Art Faculty of Classics Faculty of English Faculty of History History of Art Department Faculty of Linguistics, Philology & Phonetics Faculty of Medieval and Modern Languages Faculty of Music Faculty of Oriental Studies Faculty of Philosophy Faculty of Theology and Religion The Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities (TORCH) Voltaire Foundation Medical Sciences Division Medicine has been taught at the University of Oxford since the 13th century. In 1770, John Radcliffe, an Oxford-educated physician founded the Radcliffe Infirmary. The current Head of the Division is Gavin Screaton, the current Divisional Registrar & Chief Operating Officer is Chris Price. Professor Alastair Buchan was head from 2007 to 2017The Division contains the following Faculties and departments: Department of Biochemistry Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences Department of Experimental Psychology Radcliffe Department of Medicine Department of Oncology Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences Department of Paediatrics Sir William Dunn School of Pathology Department of Pharmacology Department of Physiology, Anatomy & Genetics Nuffield Department of Population Health Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences Department of Psychiatry Nuffield Department of Surgical Sciences Nuffield Department of Women's & Reproductive HealthThe Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine is a research institute of the Radcliffe Department of Medicine The Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics is a research institute of the Nuffield Department of Medicine.The Collaborating Centre for Oxford University and CUHK for Disaster and Medical Humanitarian Response is a partnership between the Nuffield Department of Medicine and CUHK Faculty of Medicine.The Nuffield Laboratory of Ophthalmology is a division of the Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences.The CRUK/MRC Oxford Institute for Radiation Oncology is a research institute of the Department of Oncology.The Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine is a research centre of the Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences. Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences Division The current head of the Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences Division (MPLS) is Professor James Naismith, appointed in 2023 and taking office in October 2023. From 2007 to 2015, the head was Professor Alex Halliday. Professor Sam Howison led the division from 2019 to 2023.The Division contains the following departments: Begbroke Science Park Department of Biology (formed from the merger of the Department of Plant Sciences and Department of Zoology) Department of Chemistry Department of Computer Science Doctoral Training Centre Department of Earth Sciences Department of Engineering Science Department of Materials Mathematical Institute Department of Physics Department of Statistics Social Sciences Division The Social Sciences Division represents the largest grouping of social sciences of any university in the United Kingdom. As a major provider of social science research, it is accredited by the Economic and Social Research Council as a Doctoral Training Centre of excellence in research training. From 2021 the division's head is Professor Timothy Power. From 2008 to 2017 the head was Professor Roger Goodman. The Division contains the following faculties and departments: School of Anthropology and Museum Ethnography School of Archaeology Saïd Business School Department of Economics Department of Education School of Geography and the Environment Oxford School of Global and Area Studies Blavatnik School of Government Department of International Development Oxford Internet Institute Faculty of Law Oxford Martin School Department of Politics and International Relations Department of Social Policy and Intervention Department of Sociology Gardens, Libraries and Museums In 2016 Academic Services and University Collections (ASUC) changed its name to Gardens, Libraries and Museums (GLAM), and now operates as an effective fifth division of the university. Responsible for four museums (the Ashmolean Museum, the History of Science Museum, the Oxford University Museum of Natural History, and the Pitt Rivers Museum), the Bodleian Libraries, and the University of Oxford Botanic Garden, GLAM is overseen by the directors of the six GLAM departments chaired by the Pro-Vice-Chancellor (People & GLAM), as of 2021 Anne Trefethen. Department for Continuing Education The Department for Continuing Education works with the divisions to promote continuing education. References External links Divisions and Departments Humanities Division Medical Sciences Division MPLS Division Social Sciences Division Semmelweis University (Hungarian: Semmelweis Egyetem, Hungarian pronunciation: [ˈsɛmːɛlvɛjs ˈɛɟɛtɛm]) is a research-led medical school in Budapest, Hungary, founded in 1769. With six faculties and a doctoral school it covers all aspects of medical and health sciences. The university is also the largest provider of health care services in Hungary. Most of the departments cater for the most serious cases and patients requiring complex treatment.As the highest listed institution in Hungary in the 2023 Times Higher Education World University Rankings, Semmelweis University is among the top 250 universities in the world. History The University of Trnava, founded in 1635, was lacking medical training for a long time, so Hungarian doctors were only able to study at foreign universities or in private schools, and surgeons were trained in guilds. Maria Theresa’s court physician, following the Empress’s decree of 7 November 1769, developed the plan of the new faculty, on the basis of the Vienna model. In 1770, education began with five departments. In 1777, the university, and thus medical education, moved to Buda, and in 1784, following Joseph II’s personal decree, to the other side of the Danube: to Pest. The rapidly developing Pest provided a wider range of ‘patient material’, and the departments also multiplied. There was space for a botanical garden, and anatomy as well actual patient care could also be taught more effectively. At the end of the 19th century the establishment of the present theoretical institutes and clinical departments started. Those buildings in Budapest are still in use after reconstruction and modernization. During the 20th and 21st centuries new clinics and institutes were built. From 1951, the Faculty of Medicine continued as an independent medical school and in 1955, Faculties of Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences were incorporated into the new medical University. In 1969, it adopted the name of its most famous professor, Ignáz Semmelweis. Semmelweis University was the first Hungarian higher educational institution, which started to offer an international program at the Faculty of Medicine in German in 1983, while its international program in English started in 1987, at the Faculties of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences. From 1 August 2021, the founder’s, owner’s and operator’s rights of Semmelweis University are exercised by the Foundation for National Health Care and Medical Education following the model change in higher education. Faculties Semmelweis University is a specialised university offering undergraduate and graduate courses only in the field of health sciences. The university has around 10,000 students from 60 nations, with foreign students accounting for about 18% of the total community. The largest and oldest faculty of the university is the Faculty of Medicine with 4,500 students accounting for 40% of the total number of students. András Pető Faculty Faculty of Dentistry Faculty of Health and Public Services Faculty of Health Sciences Faculty of Medicine Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences School of Ph.D. Studies Academics Education takes place in six faculties and three languages (Hungarian, English and German). Nearly 11,000 students are taking courses in One-tier Master Programmes and at Bachelor, Master's and Postgradual levels and 1,500 of them are granted a diploma each year. Integrated master programs (one-tier master programs) Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmacy run as one-tier master programs (integrated master) with a degree awarded at the end of five years of study in Dentistry and Pharmacy and six years in Medicine. These courses are one-tier degree courses, without intermediate exit, and are in alternative to the two-tier degree course scheme.Courses in Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmacy are available in Hungarian, English and German. Bachelor's programs Bachelor's Programs of Semmelweis University are offered at the Faculty of Health Sciences and at Pető andrás Faculty. The length of the programs is 8 semesters (4 years) with a total of 240 credit points. The following Bachelor's programs are available in English: Physiotherapy Nursing Midwifery Dietetics Medical diagnostic analysis – Optometry Public health supervisor Health care management Conductive education (Pető method)The physiotherapy program is available in Italian within the framework of the university's off-campus program run in Lugano, Switzerland. Master's programs Master's programs are offered at the Faculty of Health and Public Services and the Faculty of Health Sciences. The length of the programs is 3 semesters (1.5 years) with a total of 90 credit points. The following Master's Programs are available in English at the Faculty of Health Sciences: Physiotherapy Nursing Postgraduate education Semmelweis University's School of Ph.D. Studies has 7 Doctoral Schools: Basic Medicine, Clinical Medicine, Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mental Health Sciences, Neurosciences, Molecular Medicine and Pathological Sciences. Each school comprises 2 to 17 study programs that add up to over 40 programs. The Doctoral School of Semmelweis University integrates the research groups and programs of all Faculties entitled to issue Ph.D. degrees. The Doctoral School of Semmelweis University has around a hundred students obtaining their Ph.D. diplomas every year. The degrees are recognized by the European Union and are accepted in other countries. Research Research, development, and innovation at Semmelweis University take place in the areas of living natural sciences, and social sciences. Within these, life science R&D activities are the most prominent. The scientific areas connected to the Ph.D. programme are theoretical, clinical, molecular and multidisciplinary medicine, pharmaceutical sciences, mental health sciences, and pathological sciences. Physical science research is limited to certain segments of theoretical medicine and social science research is employed in the areas of mental health. R&D and training are incorporated into clinical and health sciences as well as into the university's educational activities and the curriculum. They are also included in the specialised networks operating at the university (e.g. nanotechnology, bioimaging, genomics, biobank), as well as in the research university modules (diagnostics, technology, therapy, prevention) and the collaborations which have been developing within these areas. Semmelweis University's collection of academic journals comprises printed material, online resources (databases, full text e-journals, e-books, etc.) that may be accessed both on-campus and off-campus. The Central Library provides access to more than 5,000 full text e-journals and specialised databases through its website.Patents connected to the University include the iKnife, a surgical device that is able to tell healthy and cancerous tissues apart immediately after the first cut, or the virtual 3D microscope, a device equipped with a microscope slide scanner able to scan 300 slides in one run and a 3D viewer that creates a spatial reconstruction of the serial specimen.The university publishes the peer-reviewed journal Kaleidoscope: Művelődés- Tudomány- és Orvostörténeti Folyóirat (Kaleidoscope: Journal on the History of Culture, Science and Medicine) ISSN 2062-2597, which is rated ERIH PLUS by the European Reference Index for the Humanities and Social Sciences. International relations Semmelweis University has a network of international partner agreements with around a hundred universities within the Erasmus+ network and 40 further universities in joint cooperation based on bilateral agreements. Off-campus programs The university operates cross-border programs allowing foreign students to follow the Semmelweis curriculum while undertaking their studies at the partner institution abroad. Venues of Semmelweis University's off-campus programs including Asklepios Kliniken in Hamburg, Libera Università degli Studi in Lugano, and the Health Management Academy in Bratislava. International joint projects Semmelweis University runs research and student exchange programmes in collaboration with several universities abroad based on bilateral agreements. The programmes offer scholarships to students with outstanding academic results and staff to study or do research at the partner institutions. The programmes are based on reciprocity and the length of exchange programmes may vary from one week to three months. Partner institutions include Jacobs School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, University of California Davis School of Medicine, Rutgers University, Medical University of Innsbruck, Saitama Medical University, University of Freiburg, Heidelberg University, University of Ulm, University of Padua, University of Trieste, and Jessenius Faculty of Medicine at Comenius University. Academic ranking As of 2022, the university's pharmacy programme was ranked at 200 by the QS World University Rankings.In the 2022 Times Higher Education World University Rankings Semmelweis University was placed between 250 and 300. Buildings and sites The university does not have a campus. Instead, its faculties, departments, hospitals, clinics, libraries, sport and accommodation facilities are scattered throughout the capital city Budapest. Some facilities are clustered, and most of its clinical departments belong to one of the three clinical blocks. The university's Theoretical Building at Nagyvárad tér is the tallest high rise in Hungary. It houses several research institutions, a student centre, the office of the Students’ Union, auditoriums, conference halls and the country's largest stained glass installations.The previously fragmented Faculty of Health Sciences was united in 2003 in the newly renovated Art Nouveau building of a former sanatorium. The faculty's building houses clinical skills laboratories and contains various social spaces for students to use, such as an atrium with couches and a garden.The Dental Clinical and Training Centre was completed in 2007, accommodating clinics and institutions. The Basic Medical Science Centre was built in 2008. Over a third of its area is used for scientific research, and it also has auditoriums and smaller lecture halls. The building is also home to several research groups that participate in international collaborations.The Inner Clinical Block is located close to the Corvin-negyed metro station and contains the main building and some of the university's hospitals. The main building houses the Rector's Office, the Deans’ Offices and other organisational and administrative units, as well as Semmelweis Salon, a venue for scientific symposia. Administration The main governing body of Semmelweis University is the Senate, with the rector as its president. It is endowed with the authority to make decisions and recommendations, to form opinions, and to supervise. The Senate determines the course of the university's educational and research activities and sees to their realisation, with due regard to the Founding Charter. Leaders The leadership of Semmelweis University consists of the Rector, responsible for educational and scientific affairs and the Chancellor, overseeing the financial matters of the university. The Rector is aided by five Vice-Rectors: the Vice-Rector for General Affairs, the Vice-Rector for Educational Affairs, the Vice-Rector for Science and Innovation, the Vice-Rector for Clinical Affairs and the Vice-Rector for Strategy and Development. Rector: Dr. Béla Merkely Chancellor: Dr. Lívia Pavlik Vice-Rector for General Affairs: Dr. Ferenc Bánhidy Vice-Rector for Educational Affairs: Dr. Péter Hermann Vice-Rector for Science and Innovation: Dr. Péter Ferdinandy Vice-Rector for Clinical Affairs: Dr. Attila Szabó Vice-Rector for Strategy and Development: Dr. Éva Szabó Feketéné Vice-Rector for International Studies: Dr. Alán Alpár Notable people Ignác Semmelweis (1818–1865), popularly known as “the saviour of mothers”. He began his career in Vienna; it was there that he discovered the cause of puerperal fever. He left Vienna for the Medical Faculty of the Imperial and Royal University of Pest (now Semmelweis University), where he served as professor and director of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology from 1855 to 1865. Albert Szent-Györgyi (1893–1986) is the only Hungarian Nobel laureate who received the distinction for research conducted in Hungary. He earned his diploma at the medical faculty in Budapest (now Semmelweis University). He successfully isolated vitamin C and discovered the components and reactions of the citric acid cycle at the University of Szeged. Szent-Györgyi returned to the University of Budapest's Faculty of Medicine after the war, but emigrated to the US in 1947. Árpád Lengyel (physician) (1886–1940), RMS Carpathia ship's medical officer instrumental in the Titanic rescue effort László Szollás (1907–1980), world champion and Olympic medalist pair skater. Judith Forrai (born 1949), Hungarian historian of science, medical historian, dentist, professor, doctor of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and journal editor-in-chief. Zoltán Kovács (born 1962), vice-president of the Hungarian Ice Hockey Federation and Paul Loicq Award recipient, graduated with Master of Physical Education degree in 1992 at the Faculty of Physical Education and Sport Sciences. Gallery See also List of universities and colleges in Hungary Education in Hungary Erasmus Programme iknife Ignaz Semmelweis Albert Szent-Györgyi References External links Official website Spanish Representative of Semmelweis University International Semmelweis Student Association (ISSA) Rivers State University (RIVSU or RSU), formerly Rivers State University of Science and Technology (UST or RSUST), is a government-owned university located in the Diobu (Mile III) area of Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Nigeria.As of 2021, the vice chancellor of the university is Professor Nlerum Sunday Okogbule. He was appointed by the Governor Nyesom Wike administration. History The Rivers State University of Science and Technology was established in 1972 as the College of Science and Technology. It was granted independent university status in 1980 and was renamed from College of Science and Technology to Rivers State University of Science and Technology. In March 2017, the university was renamed to Rivers State University. It is the only university in Nigeria that is accredited to offer degree programs in Marine Engineering. Faculties and courses Faculty of Sciences Department of Chemistry Department of Biochemistry Department of Physics Department of Mathematics Department of Computer Science Department of Biochemistry Department of Animal and Environmental Biology Department of Microbiology Department of Plant Science and Biotechnology Department of Medical Laboratory Science Department of Geology Department of Maritime Science Faculty of Engineering Department of Civil Highway Engineering Structural Engineering Hydraulics Department of Marine Engineering Department of Petroleum Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering Department of Electrical Engineering Department of Chemical/petrochemical Engineering Department of Agricultural And Environmental Engineering Faculty of Law Department of Business Law Department of International Law Department of Public Law Department of Private and Property Law Department of Independent Law and Crime Law Faculty of Management Sciences Department of Office And Information Management Department of Marketing Department of Management Department of Banking And Finance Department of Accountancy Faculty of Environmental Sciences Department of Surveying And Geomatics Department of Estate Management Department of Quantity Surveying Department of Architecture Department of Urban And Regional Planning Faculty of Agriculture Department of Forestry and Environment Department of Agric and Applied Economics Department of Agric Extension and Rural Development Department of Animal Science Department of Crop/Soil Science Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Environment Department of Food Science and Technology Department of Home Science and Management Faculty of Education Department of Adult Education Department of Vocational and Technical Education Department of Education Management Department of Education Foundation Department of Business Education Department of Science Education Department of Library and Information Science Faculty of Humanities Department of English and Literature Department of History and International Relations Department of Theatre Arts Department of Philosophy Department of Religious Studies College of Social Sciences Department of Mass Communication Department of Political Science Department of Psychology Department of Geography Department of Economics College of Medical Sciences Faculty of Basic medical sciences Faculty of Clinical sciences Nursing Notable alumni Magnus Ngei Abe, Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria Judith Amaechi, former First Lady of Rivers State Tonto Dikeh, Actress Asari Dokubo, Ijaw activist (left before graduation) Siminalayi Fubara, Current Governor , Rivers State Manuela George-Izunwa, Politician Tele Ikuru, former Deputy Governor Austin Opara, former Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives of Nigeria Goodluck Nanah Opiah, Politician Felicity Okpete Ovai, Engineer Mary Uranta, Actress, Producer, Singer Eberechi Wike, Judge of the Rivers State High Court of Justice Nyesom Wike, Former Governor of Rivers State Notes External links Rivers State university of Science and Technology Rivers State university of Science and Technology The Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences is an Indian hospital chain based in Telangana. It was founded by Dr. Bhaskar Rao Bollineni in 2000 in the city of Nellore. Currently, the KIMS Group operates 13 hospitals across the states of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Maharashtra. The KIMS Hospital Group is certified by NABH and NABL. It is listed on BSE and the NSE. History The oldest hospital from the KIMS Group was founded in 2000 at Nellore, by Dr. Bhaskar Rao Bollineni, a cardiac surgeon, who has performed over 30,000 surgeries. Shortly after, in 2002, he started another hospital in Rajahmundry in 2002. In 2004, KIMS group's flagship hospital, KIMS Secunderabad hospital was established, which is now a 1000-bedded hospital. Over the course of the next decade, the group expanded to several other cities in Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra, having a total capacity of 4000 beds.In 2015, KIMS Hospital received the first Green Operation Theater certification in Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana. KIMS Hospital was awarded an ‘Association of Health Care Providers India (AHPI) Award 2017’ in the Patient Friendly Hospital category, for Telangana region in 2017. Dr Bhaskar Rao's son Abhinay Bollineni is currently the CEO of KIMS Hospitals.In 2021, Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences launched its initial public offering (IPO) and became a public company. Branches The KIMS Group has hospitals in Secunderabad, Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam, Nagpur, Kondapur, Ongole, Rajahmundry, Srikakulam, Nellore, Anantapur and Kurnool. KIMS Secunderabad KIMS Secunderabad is the headquarters of the KIMS Group and was established in 2004. This hospital won the Best Multi Specialty Hospital Award at the Indo-Global Healthcare Summit & Expo 2015 and in 2016 received the Pharmacie De Qualite certification from Bureau Veritas. Heart surgeons at this hospital conducted a complex heart surgery on a 11-month-old baby from Zimbabwe. KIMS Kondapur KIMS Kondapur is a multi-speciality hospital which has cardiology, orthopedics, gastroenterology, nephrology, oncology, anaesthesiology, accidents; emergency care, endocrinology; diabetology and neurological sciences. KIMS Anantapur KIMS-Saveera Hospital in Anantapur is the largest healthcare facility in the Rayalaseema region. The group also opened an emergency clinic in Anantapur in 2019. KIMS Vizag In 2018, KIMS opened a multi-speciality hospital in Vizag. Doctors in this hospital removed a coin stuck in a man's lungs for 30 years. KIMS Ongole The KIMS Group opened a multi-speciality hospital in Ongole in 2017. In 2018, the hospital announced that they performed more than 1000 surgeries in one year of operation. Services KIMS Hospitals offers services in Cardiology, Cardiothoracic and Cardiovascular surgery, Dermatology, Dental, Diabetology, ENT, Gastroenterology, Oncology, Nephrology, Neurology, Neurosurgery, Obstetrics & Gynecology, Organ Transplantation, Orthopedics, Pediatrics, Pulmonology, Plastic Surgery, Rheumatology, Robotics and Urology. Organ transplantation KIMS Hospital has infrastructure to support organ transplantation and created an organ donation swap registry. In 2019, KIMS Secunderabad recorded 1,000 kidney transplant surgeries, In a first of its kind procedure in India, KIMS Hospitals Lung Transplant Doctors successfully performed a double lung transplant surgery on a Covid-19 patient.The KIMS Heart and Lung Transplant team has performed 12 Covid Double Lung transplants and overall 50 Lung and Heart transplant procedures between September 2020 and April 2021.This is by far the highest number of procedures performed at a single healthcare institute in Asia in the past eight months as far as COVID Double Lung Transplants are concerned. Robotic surgeries KIMS Group of Hospitals are one of the first few hospitals in India to focus on robotic surgeries and they set up South India's first robotic facility. In 2011, they performed the first robot-assisted colorectal surgery in India. The hospital performs robotic surgeries for oncology, gynaecology, urology and gastroentrology. Programs In 2017, the cardiology department held the 13th annual Cardiology Update programme. In 2019, the orthopaedic department held a course on knee replacement for orthopaedic surgeons across Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The hospital also conducted a Lupus Awareness Ramp Walk and Deep Vein Thrombosis Awareness Walk in 2019. In 2019, they also held a conference on bone marrow transplant in paediatrics. Awards References External links Official website JIS Institute of Medical Science and Research, established in 2023, is a private/Public-Private partnership medical college located in Santragachi, Howrah district, West Bengal, India. It offers the Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (MBBS) degree course. The college is recognized by the National Medical Commission and affiliated with the JIS University. Presently, howrah district hospital will be the associated teaching hospital of this college. References External links http://jismsr.org/ Gandhi Medical College (Hindi: गाँधी चिकित्सा महाविद्यालय, भोपाल, GMC) is a public medical school in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, India. It was established in 1956. Location Gandhi Medical College is located in the Fatehgarh area on Sultania Road in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. The college is situated on the ground Fatehgarh Fort once stood. History Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal was inaugurated on 13 August 1955 by Pt. Lal Bahadur Shastri. The college started its functioning in the building of the Polytechnic College with its first batch of 50 students and two departments: Anatomy and Physiology. The first Principal in 1955 was Dr. S.C. Sinha. The boys hostel was in the present Jehanuma Palace Hotel and the girls hostel was bracketed with the MLB college girls hostel at Banganga. After one year the foundation of an independent building was laid by Union Minister of Home Shri Govind Ballabh Pant on 15 September 1956. It took seven years to complete the construction. This finished building, housed in the historic Fort of Fatehgarh, was inaugurated by the first Prime Minister of India Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru, on 13 March 1963. Also in attendance were Begum Sajida Sultan of Bhopal, Governor Shri H.V. Pataskar, Chief Minister Shri B.R. Mandloi, Health Minister Mr. M.P. Dubey and Principal Dr. R.P. Singh. The foundation stone of the surgical and medical wards (Kamla Nehru Block known as KNB wards) was laid by Rajkumari Amrit Kaur the then Union Health Minister on 6 March 1955. The foundation stone of the boys' hostel was laid by King of Nepal Maharaj Mahendra Bir Vikram Shah Deo on 18 November 1955. Hospitals for men and women were established as Prince of Wales Hospital and Lady Linlithgo Lansdowne Hospital respectively. The hospital changed names with change of reigns. Prince of Wales Hospital became Hamidia Hospital and Lady Linlithgo became Sultania Zanana Hospital. Both remain part of Gandhi Medical College today. Lady Bhore Centre opposite Fire Brigade, Fatehgarh caters to antenatal and child welfare activities in addition to preventive and social medical counseling. Campus The campus building is housed in Fort of Fatehgarh which was inaugurated by the first Prime Minister of India Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru. The campus houses: Main college building Hamidia hospital Kamla Nehru Hospital Regional Institute of Ophthalmology NIREH Central Pathology lab Blood Bank Rain Basera (for patients and their relatives stay) Two canteens: one old JDA canteen and a newly constructed one Hostels Animal House Guest House Sports ground (old) Lake view Cricket Ground (under construction) Lawn Tennis court Badminton court Basketball court Sports complex which houses separate gym for Boys and Girls along with a multi-activity hall and table tennis arena.The college houses a central library, central auditorium, four lecture theatres, four examination halls, and common rooms for boys and girls. It is recognized by the Medical Council of India & State Paramedical Council of Madhya Pradesh, and affiliated to the Madhya Pradesh Medical Science University located at Jabalpur, Bhopal. Departments Anatomy Physiology Biochemistry Pharmacology Pathology Microbiology Forensic Medicine Community Medicine Ophthalmology Otolaryngology (ENT) Anesthesiology Surgery Medicine Pediatrics Obstetrics & Gynaecology Orthopedics Radiology Gastroenterology Skin V D TB Chest Cardiology Pediatric Surgery Cardiothoracic Surgery Burn & Plastic Surgery Psychiatry Dentistry Oncology Hospitals and institutes The following hospitals and institutes are under the medical college: Hamidia Hospital Sultania Zanana Hospital Kamla Nehru Hospital Regional Institute of Ophthalmology National Institute For Research in Environmental Health Cardiac Science Center Medico-Legal Institute Trauma & emergency Center State Virology Laboratory Administration Executive committee - Gandhi Medical College Society Governing body - Gandhi Medical College Society, Department of Medical Education, Government of Madhya Pradesh. Admissions Admission to the MBBS course is through National Eligibility cum Entrance Test-UG (NEET-UG) and direct nominees of Govt. of India.Admission to post-graduate courses (MS/MD) is through NEET-PG and in-service candidates of Govt. of Madhya Pradesh. Medico-Legal Institute The survey committee constituted in 1964 by the government of India considered that essential mission of a Medico-Legal institute should be to train the medical jurists. The Mudalier committee in 1962 recommended the creation of a separate cadre of specially trained medical jurists to look after the work of the state. The government of Madhya Pradesh created the 'First Medico-legal Institute in India' at its capital city Bhopal in 1977. The Medico-legal Institute played a role in the management of the Bhopal disaster, when a poisonous gas (MIC, methyl isocyanate) leaked from one of the storage tanks of the Union Carbide factory on the night of 2–3 December 1984. Postmortem examinations were conducted and steps were taken to preserve bodily tissues and fluids for the further chemical examination in order to determine what gas/gases have been inhaled by the people. National Institute for Research in Environmental Health National Institute for Research in Environmental Health (NIREH), Bhopal, is one of the permanent institutes of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a government of India's apex autonomous organization for bio-medical research in the country. Focused research on methyl isocynate (MIC) affected population of Bhopal in the areas of: Respiratory disease Eye related diseases Kidney diseases Cancer Genetic disorders Congenital disorders Mental and neurological health Women related medical issues Second generation children related medical issues RehabilitationNIREH will have a clinical research wing having the following departments: General Medicine Respiratory Medicine/Pulmonary Medicine Ophthalmology Paediatrics Obstetrics & Gynecology Psychiatry/Mental Health Neurology Radio diagnosis Epidemiology/Community MedicineThe following facilities are in the process of being established at NIREH as part of its development: Molecular Biology Laboratory Microbiology Laboratory Biochemistry Laboratory Pathology Laboratory Haematology Laboratory PFT Laboratory Central Equipment Facility Department of Epidemiology including biostatistics and computing programming Database relating to research on toxic gas exposure and environmental contamination Bhopal gas tragedy Gandhi Medical College and Hamidia Hospital played a crucial role in emergency response and care after the Bhopal Disaster. A regional institute of ophthalmology was established here after the disaster for the patients with eye problems due to MIC. Studies performed in the institute: Health Effects of the Toxic Gas Leak from the Union Carbide Methyl Isocyanate Plant in Bhopal. Technical report on Population Based Long Term, Epidemiological Studies (1985–1994). Bhopal Gas Disaster Research Centre, Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal (2003?) Contains the studies performed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) An Epidemiological Study of Symptomatic Morbidities in Communities Living Around Solar Evaporation Ponds And Behind Union Carbide Factory, Bhopal. Department of Community Medicine, GandhiMedical College, Bhopal 2009 References External links gmcbhopal.net- Official website of GMC, Bhopal. Website for alumni of GMC. Government Medical College, Datia is a full-fledged tertiary Medical college in Datia, Madhya Pradesh. It was established in the year 2018. The college imparts the degree of Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (MBBS). Datia medical college currently has 120 seats for MBBS course. Nursing and para-medical courses are also offered. The college is affiliated to Madhya Pradesh Medical Science University and is recognized by Medical Council of India. The selection to the college is done on the basis of merit through National Eligibility and Entrance Test. The college has started MBBS courses from August 2018. Courses Government Medical College, Datia undertakes the education and training of students MBBS courses since 2018. Various Paramedical courses also offered by the datia medical college since 2021. References External links https://www.datiamedicalcollege.com/ https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bhopal/7-new-med-colleges-take-mbbs-seats-to-2000-in-mp/articleshow/69897931.cms All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Vijaypur, Jammu als known as AIIMS Jammu is a public medical research university and hospital in Vijaypur, Samba district, Jammu division, Jammu and Kashmir, India. On 3 February 2019 Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the institute. Academics The institute became operational with the first batch of 50 MBBS students, one of the four AIIMS(s) to become operational in academic year 2020-21.The seats capacity was further increased with an intake of 62 MBBS students in academic year 2021-22. Social Science & Medicine is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering social science research on health, including anthropology, economics, geography, psychology, social epidemiology, social policy, sociology, medicine and health care practice, policy, and organization. It was established in 1967 and is published by Elsevier. History Social Science & Medicine (ISSN 0037-7856) was published quarterly from 1967 to 1977 by Pergamon Press and was then split into: Social Science & Medicine. Part A: Medical Psychology & Medical Sociology (ISSN 0271-7123) Social Science & Medicine. Part B: Medical Anthropology (ISSN 0160-7987) Social Science & Medicine. Part C: Medical Economics (ISSN 0160-7995) Social Science & Medicine. Part D: Medical Geography (ISSN 0160-8002) Social Science & Medicine. Part E: Medical Psychology (ISSN 0271-5384) Social Science & Medicine. Part F: Medical & Social Ethics (ISSN 0271-5392)In 1982, Parts A-F were merged back into one journal. It was published by Pergamon Press, until that company was acquired by Elsevier in 1992. Editor-in-Chief 2023 to Present – Susan J. Elliott, Department of Geography and Environmental Management, University of Waterloo, Canada.2012 to 2023 – Ichiro Kawachi and S.V. Subramanian, both at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health.2004 to 2012 – Ellen Annandale, Department of Sociology, University of York, UK.1995 to 2004 - Sally Macintyre, MRC / CSO Social and Public Health Sciences Unit, University of Glasgow, UK.1967 to 1995 - Peter J. M. McEwan (Founding Editor). Abstracting and indexing The journal is abstracted and indexed in: According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2021 impact factor of 5.379. See also Occupational health psychology References External links Official website University of Cyberjaya (UoC) is a private university established in 2005, located in Cyberjaya, Sepang District, Selangor, Malaysia, with strength in the medical sciences and alternative medicine. History Cyberjaya University College of Medical Sciences (CUCMS) was established on 23 October 2005. The institution originally consisted of two faculties offering two bachelor's degree programmes in medicine and pharmacy. It operated out of its first campus at Street Mall, Cyberjaya. In 2009, CUCMS moved to a new location in anticipation of student growth. The campus offered increased student capacity and fully equipped teaching facilities. In 2010, three additional faculties were established to offer allied health science, occupational safety & health, and complementary medicine programmes. Abu Abdullah was appointed as the new President on 4 January 2010.By 2013, the University is acquired by SMR Group. In 2015, CUCMS established its Faculty of Safety and Health from the previous School of Business. In 2018, CUCMS moved into its brand-new, purpose-built campus (current campus) along Persiaran Bestari. In 2019, Tan Sri Anwar Ali was appointed as the second chancellor of the university. In 2023, the university established its Faculty of Creative Art and Design and Centre of Biomedical Engineering.In October 2023, Noor Hisham Abdullah was appointed as the third chancellor of the university. Faculties and programmes The university has 9 faculties and two academic centres — all of which are in the main campus building in Cyberjaya. Faculty of Medicine Faculty of Pharmacy Faculty of Allied Health Sciences Faculty of Psychology and Social Sciences Faculty of Safety and Health Faculty of Traditional & Complementary Medicine Faculty of Business and Technology Faculty of Nursing Faculty of Creative Art and Design Notable alumni Sanjna Suri - beauty pageant titleholder, singer, model, actress and former pharmacist. See also List of universities in Malaysia References External links University of Cyberjaya SMR Group Sri Satya Sai University Of Technology And Medical Sciences (SSSUTMS) is a private university located in Sehore in Madhya Pradesh, India. Many students come to study from different states of India. History Sri Satya Sai Campus, Sehore came into existence in 1999 with the Sri Satya Sai Institute of Science & Technology (SSSIST). SSSIST initially had three branches in engineering education with a total intake of 180. In 2012, because of the vision of promoters, the Sehore Campus was operating twelve colleges, having twenty undergraduate courses & twenty Postgraduate courses, one post-graduate Diploma course & one Diploma course, with a total intake of 3054 students. Sri Satya Sai Group of Institutions attracts a large number of students from faraway places and states due to the quality of education at an affordable cost, without any hidden fees policy. In its history of fourteen years, various Institutions under the umbrella of the Sri Satya Sai Group of Institutions were the only Institutes in Sehore & nearby six districts offering technical education at affordable fees to worthy and needy students. Location Sri Satya Sai University Of Technology And Medical Science is situated in a 180-acre (73 ha) site adjacent to Bhopal-Indore Road,Opp.Oil fed plant, and is about 4.9 kilometres (3.0 mi) from Sehore and 33.9 kilometres (21.1 mi) from Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh Schools SSSUTMS has established the following schools: School of Engineering School of Computer Application School of Management Studies Faculty of Pharmacy School of Hotel Management School of Paramedical Studies Polytechnic (Engineering) School of Law School of Homoeopathy Faculty of Education School of Design School of Ayurveda and Siddha Studies Campus & Infrastructure Campus The university campus is spread over 180 acres in Pachama Village on the Sehore District in Madhya Pradesh. Hostel There are separate hostels for men and women on the campus. Each hostel is self-contained with amenities such as a reading room, an indoor games room, a lounge and a dining hall with a mess, a computer room and a TV in the common room. The Board for Hostel Management coordinates the various hostel activities. At present, the boys' hostel has a capacity of accommodating 252 students and the girls' hostel has a capacity of 100 girls. The mess of both hostels is run on a cooperative basis. The provision of separate rooms with air conditioners is available. A qualified medical attendant is available at the campus. Medical and hospital facilities are available in Sehore and the cost is met by the students. Mess and canteen facility are also available. See also List of universities in India Universities and colleges in India References External links sssutms.co.in sssutms.ac.in The P.E.S. Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (PESIMSR) is the first and only medical college in the town of Kuppam, Andhra Pradesh, India. It was established on 11 September 2001. It was inaugurated by Dr. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam and N. Chandrababu Naidu. It is affiliated to Dr. YSR University of Health Sciences, Vijayawada. The medical college is run by the People's Education Society. The college has been approved by the Medical Council of India. Admission procedure for undergraduate courses To be eligible for admission to the undergraduate M.B.B.S course, the candidate should have passed two years Intermediate Education conducted by the Board of Intermediate studies, Hyderabad, with Physics, Chemistry and Biology as optional subjects or any other examination recognized as equivalent to it by NTR University of Health Sciences, Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh, India. The candidate should have secured not less than 50% of the total marks in science subjects taken together at the qualifying examination. Proficiency in English is essential and the candidate should be 17 years of age at the time of admission. Postgraduate clinical courses Doctor of Medicine — A three-year course in the following specialties: Internal Medicine, Paediatrics, Radiology, Anaesthesiology, Dermatology, Psychiatry and Emergency Medicine. MS - (Master of Surgery) A three-year course in the following specialties: General Surgery, Orthopaedics, Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Ophthalmology, and Otorhinolaryngology. Postgraduate diploma (two-year) courses in Obstetrics & Gynecology, Otorhinolaryngology, Paeditrics, and Radiology.Non-clinical courses MS-A three-year course in Anatomy. MD — A three-year course in Physiology, Biochemistry, Pharmacology, Pathology, Microbiology, Forensic Medicine & Community Medicine.The qualification for all postgraduate and postgraduate diploma courses is an MBBS degree from any Medical Council of India recognized medical college in India or an equivalent foreign degree which is recognized by the MCI. Campus The college has a pollution-free large campus comprising staff quarters, a library, separate hostels for men and women and an auditorium. There are sports facilities for volleyball, lawn tennis, table-tennis, shuttle-badminton, cricket and other sports, and a gymnasium. Cricket is a popular sport. National Medical Commission (NMC) is an Indian regulatory body of 33 members which regulates medical education and medical professionals. It replaced the Medical Council of India on 25 September 2020. The Commission grants recognition of medical qualifications, gives accreditation to medical schools, grants registration to medical practitioners, and monitors medical practice and assesses the medical infrastructure in India. It was earlier established for 6 months by an ordinance in January 2019 and later became a permanent law passed by Parliament of India and later approved by President of India on 8 August 2019. History The NITI Aayog recommended the replacement of Medical Council of India (MCI) with National Medical Commission (NMC). The NMC bill was passed by parliament and approved by President on 8 August 2019.National Medical Commission ordinance was brought in to replace Medical Council of India in early 2019 through an ordinance issued in January 2019, by the President of India. The Supreme Court had allowed the Central Government to replace the medical council and with the help of five specialised doctors monitor the medical education system in India, from July 2017.The planning commission recommended the replacement of Medical Council of India (MCI) with National Medical Commission (NMC). The decision was approved by most states and after its approval by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi it was to be proposed as final bill in the parliamentary sessions by the Minister of health and family welfare Dr. Harsh Vardhan. It was passed by both houses of Parliament in 2019. President of India approved the National Medical Commission Bill 2019 on 8 August 2019 and it became a law. Guidelines for foreign medical graduates In 2021, the NMC revised its guidelines for foreign medical graduates (FMGs) seeking to obtain a license to practice medicine in the country. The guidelines introduced changes and updates, including the expansion of recognition of medical qualifications from certain countries and the requirement for FMGs to pass the Screening Test for Foreign Medical Graduates (FMGE). To be recognised as qualified to practice medicine in India, FMGs must be in possession of a valid medical qualification from a recognised medical institution and to have passed the FMGE, a mandatory examination that measures the knowledge and skills of FMGs in various areas of medicine. The process for obtaining a license to practice medicine in India under the new guidelines involves several steps, including applying for recognition of the medical qualification with the NMC, registering with the Medical Council of India (MCI), and applying to take the FMGE. Upon passing the FMGE, FMGs can then apply for a license to practice medicine in India with the NMC. Boards The commission consists of four autonomous boards: Under-Graduate Medical Education Board (UGMEB), Post-Graduate Medical Education Board (PGMEB), Medical Assessment and Rating Board and Ethics and Medical Registration Board Composition The NMC consists of 33 members, including: a) a Chairperson (medical professionals only) b) 10 ex officio Members: The President of the Under-Graduate Medical Education Board. The President of the Post-Graduate Medical Education Board. The President of the Medical Assessment and Rating Board. The President of the Ethics and Medical Registration Board. The Director General of Health Services, Directorate General of Health Services, New Delhi. The Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research. Director of any of the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences. Two persons from amongst the Directors of Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Tata Memorial Hospital, North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences, and All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health. One person to represent the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.c) 22 Part-time Members: Three Members appointed from amongst persons who have special knowledge and professional experience in such areas including management, law, medical ethics, health research, consumer or patient rights advocacy, science and technology and economics. Ten members appointed on rotational basis from amongst the nominees of the states/union territories in the Medical Advisory Council. Nine members appointed from amongst the nominees of the States and Union territories in the Medical Advisory Council.Of these at least 60% of the members must be medical practitioners. Controversies Recent change of NMC logo in November, 2023 had invited disapproval on social media from certain medical fraternities. See also References External links Official website NMC Act 2019 New NMC guidelines for Foreign Medical Graduate 2021 Zahedan University of Medical Sciences (Persian: دانشگاه علوم پزشکی و خدمات بهداشتی درمانی زاهدان) is a public university in Zahedan, Iran. The university has six faculties including medicine, dentistry, rehabilitation, health care, nursing, paramedicine and a satellite schools in Khash.The university was founded in 1986 and it offers 64 fields in 6 faculties and its 378 academic members provide educational services to more than 4,400 students. References External links Official Website of the Zahedan University of Medical Sciences The Journals of Gerontology are the first scientific journals on aging published in the United States. The publication is separated into four separate peer-reviewed scientific journals, each with its own editor, and published in two series. The Journal of Gerontology: Biological Sciences and the Journal of Gerontology: Medical Sciences are housed within The Journals of Gerontology, Series A; the Journal of Gerontology: Psychological Sciences and the Journal of Gerontology: Social Sciences are housed within The Journals of Gerontology, Series B. The journals are published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Gerontological Society of America. History The journals were founded under the title Journal of Gerontology in 1946. In 1961, material dealing with social policy, program development, and service delivery was split into a new journal, The Gerontologist. In 1988 Journal of Gerontology was renamed Journals of Gerontology to reflect the fact that it represented a composite of four journals with four separate editors, and in 1995 it was split into two separate publications: the Journals of Gerontology: Biological Sciences and Medical Sciences and the Journals of Gerontology: Psychological Sciences and Social Sciences. Series A Journal of Gerontology: Biological Sciences Journal of Gerontology: Biological Sciences publishes articles relating to the biology of aging. Topics include biochemistry, cellular and molecular biology, genetics, neuroscience, comparative and evolutionary biology, biodemography, and biological underpinnings of late life diseases.The editors-in-chief are Rozalyn Anderson and David Le Couteur. Journal of Gerontology: Medical Sciences Journal of Gerontology: Medical Sciences publishes material on a range of medical sciences relating to aging. Topics include basic medical science, clinical epidemiology, clinical research, and health services research.The editor-in-chief is Anne B. Newman. Series B Journal of Gerontology: Psychological Sciences Journal of Gerontology: Psychological Sciences publishes articles relating to the psychology of aging. Topics include attitudes, cognition, perception, sensation, emotion, personality, health psychology, neuropsychology, and physiological psychology.The editor-in-chief is Derek M. Isaacowitz. Journal of Gerontology: Social Sciences Journal of Gerontology: Social Sciences publishes material relating to aging from the field of social sciences. Topics include public health, epidemiology, social work, demography, anthropology, social history, political science, and economics.The editor-in-chief is Deborah S. Carr. References External links The Gerontological Society of America: Publications A physician (American English), medical practitioner (British English), medical doctor, or simply doctor, is a health professional who practices medicine, which is concerned with promoting, maintaining or restoring health through the study, diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of disease, injury, and other physical and mental impairments. Physicians may focus their practice on certain disease categories, types of patients, and methods of treatment—known as specialities—or they may assume responsibility for the provision of continuing and comprehensive medical care to individuals, families, and communities—known as general practice. Medical practice properly requires both a detailed knowledge of the academic disciplines, such as anatomy and physiology, underlying diseases and their treatment—the science of medicine—and also a decent competence in its applied practice—the art or craft of medicine. Both the role of the physician and the meaning of the word itself vary around the world. Degrees and other qualifications vary widely, but there are some common elements, such as medical ethics requiring that physicians show consideration, compassion, and benevolence for their patients. Modern meanings Specialist in internal medicine Around the world the term physician refers to a specialist in internal medicine or one of its many sub-specialties (especially as opposed to a specialist in surgery). This meaning of physician conveys a sense of expertise in treatment by drugs or medications, rather than by the procedures of surgeons.This term is at least nine hundred years old in English: physicians and surgeons were once members of separate professions, and traditionally were rivals. The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, third edition, gives a Middle English quotation making this contrast, from as early as 1400: O Lord, whi is it so greet difference betwixe a cirugian and a physician.Henry VIII granted a charter to the London Royal College of Physicians in 1518. It was not until 1540 that he granted the Company of Barber-Surgeons (ancestor of the Royal College of Surgeons) its separate charter. In the same year, the English monarch established the Regius Professorship of Physic at the University of Cambridge. Newer universities would probably describe such an academic as a professor of internal medicine. Hence, in the 16th century, physic meant roughly what internal medicine does now. Currently, a specialist physician in the United States may be described as an internist. Another term, hospitalist, was introduced in 1996, to describe US specialists in internal medicine who work largely or exclusively in hospitals. Such 'hospitalists' now make up about 19% of all US general internists, who are often called general physicians in Commonwealth countries. This original use, as distinct from surgeon, is common in most of the world including the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth countries (such as Australia, Bangladesh, India, New Zealand, Pakistan, South Africa, Sri Lanka, and Zimbabwe), as well as in places as diverse as Brazil, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Ireland, and Taiwan. In such places, the more general English terms doctor or medical practitioner are prevalent, describing any practitioner of medicine (whom an American would likely call a physician, in the broad sense). In Commonwealth countries, specialist pediatricians and geriatricians are also described as specialist physicians who have sub-specialized by age of patient rather than by organ system. Physician and surgeon Around the world, the combined term physician and surgeon is used to describe either a general practitioner or any medical practitioner irrespective of specialty. This usage still shows the original meaning of physician and preserves the old difference between a physician, as a practitioner of physic, and a surgeon. The term may be used by state medical boards in the United States, and by equivalent bodies in Canadian provinces, to describe any medical practitioner. North America In modern English, the term physician is used in two main ways, with relatively broad and narrow meanings respectively. This is the result of history and is often confusing. These meanings and variations are explained below. In the United States and Canada, the term physician describes all medical practitioners holding a professional medical degree. The American Medical Association, established in 1847, as well as the American Osteopathic Association, founded in 1897, both currently use the term physician to describe members. However, the American College of Physicians, established in 1915, does not: its title uses physician in its original sense. American physicians The vast majority of physicians trained in the United States have a Doctor of Medicine degree, and use the initials M.D. A smaller number attend osteopathic medical schools and have a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree and use the initials D.O. The World Directory of Medical Schools lists both MD and DO granting schools as medical schools located in the United States. After completion of medical school, physicians complete a residency in the specialty in which they will practice. Subspecialties require the completion of a fellowship after residency. Both MD and DO physicians participate in the National Resident Matching Program (NRMP) and attend ACGME-accredited residencies and fellowships across all medical specialties to obtain licensure. All boards of certification now require that physicians demonstrate, by examination, continuing mastery of the core knowledge and skills for a chosen specialty. Recertification varies by particular specialty between every seven and every ten years. Primary care Primary care physicians guide patients in preventing disease and detecting health problems early while they are still treatable. They are divided into two types: family medicine doctors and internal medicine doctors. Family doctors, or family physicians, are trained to care for patients of any age, while internists are trained to care for adults. Family doctors receive training in a variety of care and are therefore also referred to as general practitioners. Family medicine grew out of the general practitioner movement of the 1960s in response to the growing specialization in medicine that was seen as threatening to the doctor-patient relationship and continuity of care. Podiatry In the United States, the American Podiatric Medical Association (APMA) defines podiatrists as physicians and surgeons who treat the foot, ankle, and associated structures of the leg. Podiatrists undergo training with the Doctor of Podiatric Medicine (DPM) degree. The American Medical Association (AMA), however, advocates for the definition of a physician as an individual possessing degree of either a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine. In the US, podiatrists are required to complete three to four years of podiatry residency upon graduating with a DPM degree. After residency, one to two years of fellowship programs are available in plastic surgery, foot and ankle reconstructive surgery, sports medicine, and wound care.Podiatry residencies and/ or fellowships are not accredited by the ACGME. The overall scope of podiatric practice varies from state to state and is not similar to that of physicians holding an MD or DO degree. DPM is also available at one Canadian university, namely the Université du Québec à Trois-Rivières; students are typically required to complete an internship in New York prior to obtaining their professional degree. The World Directory of Medical Schools does not list US or Canadian schools of podiatric medicine as medical schools and only lists US-granted MD, DO, and Canadian MD programs as medical schools for the respective regions. Shortage Many countries in the developing world have the problem of too few physicians. In 2015, the Association of American Medical Colleges warned that the US will face a doctor shortage of as many as 90,000 by 2025. Social role and world view Biomedicine Within Western culture and over recent centuries, medicine has become increasingly based on scientific reductionism and materialism. This style of medicine is now dominant throughout the industrialized world, and is often termed biomedicine by medical anthropologists. Biomedicine formulates the human body and disease in a culturally distinctive pattern, and is a world view learnt by medical students. Within this tradition, the medical model is a term for the complete set of procedures in which all doctors are trained, including mental attitudes. A particularly clear expression of this world view, currently dominant among conventional physicians, is evidence-based medicine. Within conventional medicine, most physicians still pay heed to their ancient traditions: The critical sense and sceptical attitude of the citation of medicine from the shackles of priestcraft and of caste; secondly, the conception of medicine as an art based on accurate observation, and as a science, an integral part of the science of man and of nature; thirdly, the high moral ideals, expressed in that most memorable of human documents (Gomperz), the Hippocratic oath; and fourthly, the conception and realization of medicine as the profession of a cultivated gentleman. — Sir William Osler, Chauvanism in Medicine (1902) In this Western tradition, physicians are considered to be members of a learned profession, and enjoy high social status, often combined with expectations of a high and stable income and job security. However, medical practitioners often work long and inflexible hours, with shifts at unsociable times. Their high status is partly from their extensive training requirements, and also because of their occupation's special ethical and legal duties. The term traditionally used by physicians to describe a person seeking their help is the word patient (although one who visits a physician for a routine check-up may also be so described). This word patient is an ancient reminder of medical duty, as it originally meant 'one who suffers'. The English noun comes from the Latin word patiens, the present participle of the deponent verb, patior, meaning 'I am suffering', and akin to the Greek verb πάσχειν (romanized: paschein, lit. to suffer) and its cognate noun πάθος (pathos, suffering).Physicians in the original, narrow sense (specialist physicians or internists, see above) are commonly members or fellows of professional organizations, such as the American College of Physicians or the Royal College of Physicians in the United Kingdom, and such hard-won membership is itself a mark of status. Alternative medicine While contemporary biomedicine has distanced itself from its ancient roots in religion and magic, many forms of traditional medicine and alternative medicine continue to espouse vitalism in various guises: As long as life had its own secret properties, it was possible to have sciences and medicines based on those properties. The US National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) classifies complementary and alternative medicine therapies into five categories or domains, including: alternative medical systems, or complete systems of therapy and practice; mind-body interventions, or techniques designed to facilitate the mind's effect on bodily functions and symptoms; biologically based systems including herbalism; and manipulative and body-based methods such as chiropractic and massage therapy. In considering these alternate traditions that differ from biomedicine (see above), medical anthropologists emphasize that all ways of thinking about health and disease have a significant cultural content, including conventional western medicine.Ayurveda, Unani medicine, and homeopathy are popular types of alternative medicine. Physicians' own health Some commentators have argued that physicians have duties to serve as role models for the general public in matters of health, for example by not smoking cigarettes. Indeed, in most western nations relatively few physicians smoke, and their professional knowledge does appear to have a beneficial effect on their health and lifestyle. According to a study of male physicians, life expectancy is slightly higher for physicians (73 years for white and 69 years for black) than lawyers or many other highly educated professionals. Causes of death which are less likely to occur in physicians than the general population include respiratory disease (including pneumonia, pneumoconioses, COPD, but excluding emphysema and other chronic airway obstruction), alcohol-related deaths, rectosigmoid and anal cancers, and bacterial diseases.Physicians do experience exposure to occupational hazards, and there is a well-known aphorism that doctors make the worst patients. Causes of death that are shown to be higher in the physician population include suicide among doctors and self-inflicted injury, drug-related causes, traffic accidents, and cerebrovascular and ischaemic heart disease. Physicians are also prone to occupational burnout. This manifests as a long-term stress reaction characterized by poorer quality of care towards patients, emotional exhaustion, a feeling of decreased personal achievement, and others. A study by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality reported that time pressure was the greatest cause of burnout; a survey from the American Medical Association reported that more than half of all respondents chose too many bureaucratic tasks as the leading cause of burnout. Education and training Medical education and career pathways for doctors vary considerably across the world. All medical practitioners In all developed countries, entry-level medical education programs are tertiary-level courses, undertaken at a medical school attached to a university. Depending on jurisdiction and university, entry may follow directly from secondary school or require pre-requisite undergraduate education. The former commonly takes five or six years to complete. Programs that require previous undergraduate education (typically a three- or four-year degree, often in science) are usually four or five years in length. Hence, gaining a basic medical degree may typically take from five to eight years, depending on jurisdiction and university. Following the completion of entry-level training, newly graduated medical practitioners are often required to undertake a period of supervised practice before full registration is granted, typically one or two years. This may be referred to as an internship, as the foundation years in the UK, or as conditional registration. Some jurisdictions, including the United States, require residencies for practice. Medical practitioners hold a medical degree specific to the university from which they graduated. This degree qualifies the medical practitioner to become licensed or registered under the laws of that particular country, and sometimes of several countries, subject to requirements for an internship or conditional registration. Specialists in internal medicine Specialty training is begun immediately following completion of entry-level training, or even before. In other jurisdictions, junior medical doctors must undertake generalist (un-streamed) training for one or more years before commencing specialization. Hence, depending on the jurisdiction, a specialist physician (internist) often does not achieve recognition as a specialist until twelve or more years after commencing basic medical training—five to eight years at university to obtain a basic medical qualification, and up to another nine years to become a specialist. Regulation In most jurisdictions, physicians (in either sense of the word) need government permission to practice. Such permission is intended to promote public safety, and often to protect government spending, as medical care is commonly subsidized by national governments. In some jurisdictions such as in Singapore, it is common for physicians to inflate their qualifications with the title Dr in correspondence or namecards, even if their qualifications are limited to a basic (e.g., bachelor level) degree. In other countries such as Germany, only physicians holding an academic doctorate may call themselves doctor – on the other hand, the European Research Council has decided that the German medical doctorate does not meet the international standards of a PhD research degree. All medical practitioners Among the English-speaking countries, this process is known either as licensure as in the United States, or as registration in the United Kingdom, other Commonwealth countries, and Ireland. Synonyms in use elsewhere include colegiación in Spain, ishi menkyo in Japan, autorisasjon in Norway, Approbation in Germany, and άδεια εργασίας in Greece. In France, Italy and Portugal, civilian physicians must be members of the Order of Physicians to practice medicine. In some countries, including the United Kingdom and Ireland, the profession largely regulates itself, with the government affirming the regulating body's authority. The best-known example of this is probably the General Medical Council of Britain. In all countries, the regulating authorities will revoke permission to practice in cases of malpractice or serious misconduct. In the large English-speaking federations (United States, Canada, Australia), the licensing or registration of medical practitioners is done at a state or provincial level, or nationally as in New Zealand. Australian states usually have a Medical Board, which has now been replaced by the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA) in most states, while Canadian provinces usually have a College of Physicians and Surgeons. All American states have an agency that is usually called the Medical Board, although there are alternate names such as Board of Medicine, Board of Medical Examiners, Board of Medical Licensure, Board of Healing Arts or some other variation. After graduating from a first-professional school, physicians who wish to practice in the US usually take standardized exams, such as the USMLE for a Doctor in Medicine. Specialists in internal medicine Most countries have some method of officially recognizing specialist qualifications in all branches of medicine, including internal medicine. Sometimes, this aims to promote public safety by restricting the use of hazardous treatments. Other reasons for regulating specialists may include standardization of recognition for hospital employment and restriction on which practitioners are entitled to receive higher insurance payments for specialist services. Performance and professionalism supervision The issue of medical errors, drug abuse, and other issues in physician professional behavior received significant attention across the world, in particular following a critical 2000 report which arguably launched the patient-safety movement. In the US, as of 2006 there were few organizations that systematically monitored performance. In the US, only the Department of Veterans Affairs randomly drug tests physicians, in contrast to drug testing practices for other professions that have a major impact on public welfare. Licensing boards at the US state-level depend upon continuing education to maintain competence. Through the utilization of the National Practitioner Data Bank, Federation of State Medical Boards' disciplinary report, and American Medical Association Physician Profile Service, the 67 State Medical Boards continually self-report any adverse/disciplinary actions taken against a licensed physician in order that the other Medical Boards in which the physician holds or is applying for a medical license will be properly notified so that corrective, reciprocal action can be taken against the offending physician. In Europe, as of 2009 the health systems are governed according to various national laws, and can also vary according to regional differences similar to the United States. See also References Further reading Bell, Whitfield J. Medical practice in colonial America. Bulletin of the History of Medicine 31.5 (1957): 442–453. JSTOR 44449174. Hamilton, Bernice. The Medical Professions in the Eighteenth Century. Economic History Review 4#2 1951, pp. 141–169. JSTOR 2599120. In Britain Holloway, Sydney WF. Medical education in England, 1830–1858: A sociological analysis. History 49.167 (1964): 299–324. JSTOR 24404427. Keevil, John Joyce. Medicine and the Navy, 1200–1900 (4 vol. ; E. & S. Livingstone, 1957) on Royal Navy Porter, Roy. Disease, Medicine and Society in England, 1550–1860 (Cambridge University Press, 1995). External links Media related to Physicians at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of physician at Wiktionary The University of Aberdeen (abbreviated Aberd. in post-nominals; Scottish Gaelic: Oilthigh Obar Dheathain) is a public research university in Aberdeen, Scotland. It was founded in 1495 when William Elphinstone, Bishop of Aberdeen and Chancellor of Scotland, petitioned Pope Alexander VI on behalf of James IV, King of Scots to establish King's College, making it one of Scotland's four ancient universities and the fifth-oldest university in the English-speaking world. Along with the universities of St Andrews, Glasgow, and Edinburgh, the university was part of the Scottish Enlightenment during the 18th century. The university as it is currently constituted was formed in 1860 by a merger between King's College and Marischal College, a second university founded in 1593 as a Protestant alternative to the former. The university's iconic buildings act as symbols of wider Aberdeen, particularly Marischal College in the city centre and the crown steeple of King's College in Old Aberdeen. There are two campuses; the predominantly utilised King's College campus dominates the section of the city known as Old Aberdeen, which is approximately two miles north of the city centre. Although the original site of the university's foundation, most academic buildings apart from the King's College Chapel and Quadrangle were constructed in the 20th century during a period of significant expansion. The university's Foresterhill campus is next to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary and houses the School of Medicine and Dentistry as well as the School of Medical Sciences. Together these buildings form one of Europe's largest health campuses. The annual income of the institution for 2021–22 was £260.9 million of which £50.8 million was from research grants and contracts, with an expenditure of £313.4 million.Aberdeen has educated a wide range of notable alumni, and the university played key roles in the Scottish Reformation, Scottish Enlightenment, and the Scottish Renaissance. Five Nobel laureates have since been associated with the university: two in Chemistry, one in Physiology or Medicine, one in Physics, and one in Peace. History King's and Marischal Colleges There appears to have existed in Old Aberdeen, from a very early period, a studium generate, or university, attached to the episcopal chapter of the See of Aberdeen. It is said to have been founded in 1157 by Edward, Bishop of Aberdeen, and although, according to Hector Boece, it still existed at the period when King's College was founded, it is probable that it had in some way ceased to answer the purposes which it must have been designed to serve, since King James IV, in his letter to Pope Alexander VI, requesting him to found a university in Old Aberdeen, mentions as the chief motive for the undertaking, the profound ignorance of the inhabitants of the north of Scotland, and the great deficiency of properly educated men to fill the clerical office in that part of his kingdom.The first university in Aberdeen, King's College, formally The university and King's College of Aberdeen (Collegium Regium Aberdonense), was founded on 10 February 1494 by William Elphinstone, Bishop of Aberdeen, Chancellor of Scotland, and a graduate of the University of Glasgow drafting a request on behalf of King James IV to Pope Alexander VI resulting in a papal bull being issued. It seems that James was keen to ensure that Scotland had as many universities as England at the time, and it was to possess all the privileges enjoyed by those of Paris and Bologna, two of the most highly favoured in Europe. The university, modelled on that of the University of Paris and intended principally as a law school, soon became the most famous and popular of the Scots seats of learning, largely due to the prestige of Elphinstone and his friend, Hector Boece, the first principal appointed in 1500. Its aim was to train doctors, teachers and clergy who would serve the communities of northern Scotland, as well as lawyers and administrators for the Scottish Crown. It was a collegiate foundation with 36 full-time staff and students and walls protecting it from the outside world. In 1497 the college established the first chair of medicine in the English-speaking world. The first book (there was no printing press in Scotland at the time) to be printed in Edinburgh and in Scotland was the Aberdeen Breviary, which was written by both Elphinstone and Boece in 1509.Following the Scottish Reformation in 1560, King's College was purged of its Roman Catholic staff but in other respects was largely resistant to change. George Keith, the fifth earl marischal, was a moderniser within the college and supportive of the reforming ideas of Peter Ramus and Andrew Melville. In April 1593 he founded a second university in the 'New Town', Marischal College. It is also possible the founding of another college in nearby Fraserburgh by Sir Alexander Fraser, a business rival of Keith, was instrumental in its creation. Aberdeen was highly unusual at this time for having two universities in one city: as 20th-century university prospectuses observed, Aberdeen had the same number as existed in England at the time (the University of Oxford and University of Cambridge). Initially, Marischal College offered the principal of King's College a role in selecting its academics, but this was refused – the first blow in a developing rivalry. Marischal College, in the commercial heart of the city (rather than the ancient but much smaller collegiate enclave of Old Aberdeen), was quite different in nature and outlook. For example, it was more integrated into the life of the city, such as allowing students to live outwith the college. The two rival colleges often clashed, sometimes in court, but also in brawls between students on the streets of Aberdeen. Duncan Liddell endowed the first chair in mathematics at Marischal College in 1613, but the first professor was not appointed until 1626. As the institutions put aside their differences, a process of attempted (but unsuccessful) mergers began in the 17th century. During this time, both colleges made notable intellectual contributions to the Scottish Enlightenment. Both colleges supported the Jacobite rebellion and following the defeat of the 1715 rising were largely purged by the authorities of their academics and officials. King Charles' University (1641–61) and the merger of the two colleges (1860) The nearest the two colleges had come to full union was as the Caroline University of Aberdeen, a merger initiated by Charles I in 1641, which united the two colleges for twenty years. Following the civil conflicts of the Wars of the Three Kingdoms, a more complete unification was attempted following the ratification of Parliament by Oliver Cromwell during the interregnum in 1654. This united university survived until the Restoration whereby all laws made during this period were rescinded by Charles II and the two colleges reverted to independent status. Charles I is still recognised as one of the university's founders, due to his part in creating the Caroline University and his benevolence towards King's College.The Aberdeen Philosophical Society (known locally as the Wise Club) was created by Thomas Reid, George Campbell, David Skene, John Gregory, John Stewart, and Robert Traill, and held its first meeting in the Old Red Lion Inn on 12 January 1758. From its inception, the society was an intimate, private body whose members were drawn exclusively from the learned professions, and this feature differentiated it from the more open and socially inclusive societies like the Glasgow Literary Society or the Select Society of Edinburgh. Over 133 papers were given and discussed at the meeting, and many of these formed the basis of books subsequently published. The society was eventually disbanded in March 1773. The society and its individual members played a key role in the Scottish Enlightenment, and it was the most important forum for the promotion of enlightened thought and values in Aberdeen. The Philosophical Society was revived in 1840, with the object of receiving and debating original scientific, literary and philosophical papers from its members; however, the decision was taken on 13 September 1939 to discontinue its meetings, chiefly in view of the difficulties posed by the war, although it does not appear to have been ever formally wound up. The Free Church of Scotland founded Christ's College in Aberdeen in 1843 for the training of ministers. An extravagant Gothic building, with a commanding oriel window and tower, was erected for the college at the western end of Union Street in 1850. Linked to the college was a museum and library (containing 17,000 volumes). Following the church reunion of 1929, Christ's College became a Church of Scotland college and was integrated into the University of Aberdeen. The college building is no longer used by either the church or the university, and the college is contained completely within the buildings of King's College, maintaining its own divinity library. The university hosted its first meeting of the British Science Association in 1859. Having no suitable meeting place to host the meeting, the town raised the money themselves by personal subscription and built the Music Hall. It was capable of holding about 2,500 people and so successful was the meeting that associate membership, necessary to gain access to the proceedings, had to be capped. Prominent among the local organisers were Professors James Clerk Maxwell (Natural Philosophy) and James Nicol (Geology) of Marischal College. Prince Albert, the Prince Consort, took on the role of president for the year. The young Maxwell himself, still only 28, spoke on three different subjects, one being a presentation of his newly discovered law of molecular velocities in a gas. The ‘Maxwell distribution law’, as it is now known, is the law of physics with the strongest Aberdeen connection. In addition, Sir Charles Lyell, president of the Geological Section of the British Academy, and a champion Charles Darwin's work, made one of the first announcements that Darwin had undertaken a body of work on evolution and was about to release his findings. The organisers felt that they might be risking something in holding the meeting much further north than they had done before but in the event the Aberdeen meeting was the most well attended the BA had ever had.Further unsuccessful suggestions for union were brought about throughout the 18th and early 19th centuries. William Ogilvie, known as the Rebel Professor, proposed a paper on the union and reform of the two colleges in 1787, but the proposals were rejected by seven (known as the 'seven wise Masters') out of ten professors at King's. The evolving examination system and university research now required much higher academic standards from the students. The two colleges in Aberdeen merged on 15 September 1860 in accordance with the Universities (Scotland) Act 1858, which also created a new medical school at Marischal College. The 1858 Act of Parliament stated the united University shall take rank among the Universities of Scotland as from the date of erection of King's College and University. The university is thus Scotland's third oldest and the United Kingdom's fifth oldest university. The transference of the arts classes from Marischal to King's College required the extension of King's at the cost of £20,000. This included the rebuilding of two sides of the quadrangle for the class-rooms (1862) and the erection of the library (1870), which for many years had occupied the nave of the chapel.In 1873, university students voted against university degrees being open to women. However, all faculties were open to women in 1892, and in 1894 the first 20 matriculated females began their studies at the university. Four women graduated in arts by 1898, and by the following year, women made up a quarter of the faculty. The modern university The closing of the quadrangle of Marischal College was completed during the university's quatercentenary in 1906, which was officially opened by Edward VII and Alexandra, and which saw some of the most extravagant celebrations and expressions of civic pride ever demonstrated in Aberdeen. Four days of festivities took place across the city, which included church services, banquets, torchlight processions, and fireworks displays. In all, the cost of the four days of festivities was the modern equivalent of £1.34 million. The ceremony saw the granting of honorary degrees to over a hundred public and academic figures from across the academic world. In an extravagant display of luxury, Lord Strathcona, the then chancellor of the university, spent £8518 in entertaining around 2500 invited guests in a tent specially designed for the occasion. After having received an honorary degree (LLD) in 1905, Thomas Hardy celebrated Aberdeen as ‘a University which can claim in my opinion to an exceptional degree that breadth of view & openness of mind that all Universities profess to cultivate, but many stifle’. Hardy wrote a poem for a special number of the student publication, Alma Mater, in celebration of the quatercentenary of the university.‘I looked and thought, All is too gray and cold To wake my place-enthusiasms of old! Till a voice passed: Behind that granite mien Lurks the imposing beauty of a Queen. I looked anew; and saw the radiant form Of Her who soothes in stress, who steers in storm, On the grave influence of whose eyes sublime Men count for the stability of the time’In the 20th century, the university expanded greatly, particularly at King's College. New buildings were constructed on the land around King's College throughout the 20th century. Initially, these were built to match the ancient buildings (e.g. the New King's lecture rooms and Elphinstone Hall), but later ones from the 1960s onward were constructed in brutalist style. Meanwhile, the Foresterhill campus began to train medical students in the 1930s next to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary.During the mid-20th century departments which had been at Marischal College moved into one of these new buildings (most at King's College) and by the late 20th-century Marischal College had been abandoned by all but the Anatomy Department, a graduation hall and the Marischal Museum (Marischal College has now been restored as the headquarters of Aberdeen City Council, which is leasing a portion of the complex from the university). Following extensive fundraising, a £57 million new university library (the Sir Duncan Rice Library) opened in autumn 2011 at the King's College campus to replace the outgrown Queen Mother Library and was officially opened by the Queen in September 2012. Today, most students spend most of their time in modern buildings which provide up-to-date facilities for teaching, research and other activities such as dining. However, the old buildings at King's College are still in use as lecture and tutorial rooms and accommodation for various academic departments. In February 2020, the Scottish Funding Council (SFC) found that in approving a financial settlement agreement with the former Principal Sir Ian Diamond, the university failed to make best use of public funds or exercise good governance. As a result of the investigation, the university was ordered to repay £119,000 of grant finance to the SFC and undertake an externally-facilitated examination of its governance and culture. Modern Languages On 5 December 2023 it was announced that a working group, chaired by Professor Karl Leydecker, had been set up to look at the future of teaching of modern languages at the University. It was looking at three options, all of which involve the end of single honours French, Gaelic, German and Spanish, and was engaging in consultation with student and faculty. It was stated that departmental income does not cover even the direct costs of staff delivering Modern Languages provision before any central costs ... leading to a projected deficit for Modern Languages of £1.64m in 2023/24. At an online meeting of the University Senate on 6 December, senators voted 78-15 in favour of a motion which called for an immediate halt in the consultation process until an overall plan is presented in detail to Senate for appropriate scrutiny.” Five senators abstained. On 8 December The Gaudie reported that staff had been sent 'Risk of Redundancy' letters which stated that staff who are made redundant would receive four months pay. This contrasts with the University's severance policy which states that the maximum redundancy package available to staff is 12 months of pay or £100,000; whatever is lower.A group of academics from the department released a statement which described the proposed changes as institutional vandalism. They continued The management’s self-destructive plan would see the University of Aberdeen become the first ancient university in the world not to offer language degrees in one of the most monolingual countries A University statement said: Our difficulty is that this academic year, following longer term declining demand in the UK for traditional specialist language study, a total of just five students began Single Honours across our four Modern Language programmes including Gaelic. Buildings and campuses The university's main campus is at King's College in Old Aberdeen, where the original buildings are still in use in addition to many 20th century buildings. A second campus at Foresterhill accommodates the School of Medicine, Medical Science and Nutrition. In addition, there are smaller facilities at other sites such as the Royal Cornhill Hospital to the west of the city centre, and the Rowett Institute in Bucksburn. Current campuses King's College The King's College campus covers an area of some 35 hectares around the ancient King's College buildings and the High Street. It hosts around two-thirds of the university's built estate and most student facilities, and lies 2 miles north of Aberdeen city centre. The university does not own all the buildings on the campus which also include private houses, shops and businesses (although many of these rely heavily on custom from the university community) and it is best thought of as a district of the city dominated by the university. It can be reached from the city centre by bus routes 1, 2, 13, 19 and 20 operated by First Aberdeen and from northern Aberdeenshire or Aberdeen bus station by various routes operated by Stagecoach Bluebird. The historic King's College buildings form a quadrangle with an interior court, two sides of which have been rebuilt and expanded with a library wing in the 19th century. The Crown Tower and the chapel, the oldest parts, date from around 1500. The original foundation contained the chapel, the Great Hall and living accommodation, with its own kitchen and brewery, a well in the quadrangle, and a college garden to provide herbs and vegetables. The Grammar School was just outside the walls, in front of the college. The Crown Tower is surmounted by a structure about 40 ft (12 m) high, consisting of a six-sided lantern and Imperial crown, both sculptured, and resting on the intersections of two arched ornamental slips rising from the four corners of the top of the tower. This crown, also known as the Crown of Kings, frequently acts as a symbol of the university. The choir of the chapel contains original oak-canopied stalls, miserere seats, and lofty open screens in the French flamboyant style. They were preserved by the college's Principal during the Reformation, who fought off local barons who had attacked the nearby St Machar's Cathedral. The Cromwell Tower, created between 1658 and 1662 opposite the Crown Tower, was originally built as residential accommodation, but an observatory was built on top in 1826. The library wing was converted into an exhibition and conference venue in the 1990s and today also houses the university's Business School. The first of the modern age of construction in the King's campus began with the construction in 1913 of the New Building (now known as New King's), largely in a similar architectural style to the old buildings. A large manse located on the lawn opposite King's College was removed before the First World War. New King's groups to form a yet larger quadrangle-like green for the campus also bordered by the High Street, King's and Elphinstone Hall, a traditional 1930 replacement for the Great Hall. The Elphinstone Hall was subsequently used as a dining facility but is now used for graduations, examinations, fairs, and other large university events.However, most students and staff spend relatively little time in these historic buildings, with a large number of modern ones housing most facilities and academic departments. Most date from the second half of the 20th century. Some of these echo the existing architecture of Old Aberdeen, such as the Fraser Noble Building with its distinctive concrete crown designed to resemble the one adorning King's College. Other buildings were constructed of stone in the 1950s (e.g. the Taylor Building and Meston Building). A number of other buildings are designed in the brutalist style, such as the Arts Lecture Theatre and adjoining William Guild Building, opened in 1969 to house the School of Psychology. Also on the site is the Cruickshank Botanic Garden which was presented to the university in 1899 and is open to the public. The Powis Gateway forms the east gate and archway from College Bounds, Old Aberdeen. These oriental style towers with minarets have provoked much interest over the years. At one time there was a portrait of John Leslie dressed in Turkish costume, on the walls of Powis House, but there is no obvious connection between the estate and the Middle East. The gateway is also adorned with panels bearing the coats of arms of the Lairds of Powis. The Estate of Powis was owned by the Frasers—their crest is shown on the towers—until the marriage of an heiress to a Leslie. Powis House was built by Hugh Leslie. The house was the home of John Leslie, Professor of Greek at Kings College. It was subsequently owned by the Burnett family. In 1936, J.G. Burnett sold most of the estate to Aberdeen Town Council who built a housing estate in the area comprising over 300 residences.The Sir Duncan Rice Library was designed by Danish architects Schmidt Hammer Lassen and completed in 2011. It was officially opened by Queen Elizabeth II in September 2012 and named after Duncan Rice, a previous Principal of the university. This seven-storey tower, clad in zebra-like jagged stripes of white and clear glass, replaced the smaller Queen Mother Library as the university's main library and can be seen prominently from the entire campus and much of the city. It is open to the public and outstanding views of the city and coastline are available from the upper floors. In addition to expanded facilities it also houses public exhibition space and the university's historic collections, comprising more than a quarter of a million ancient and priceless books and manuscripts collected over five centuries since the university's foundations. Other libraries are in the Taylor Building on the same campus (for law books and materials) and at Foresterhill (for medicine and medical sciences). The university's library service (i.e. including all libraries) holds over one million books. The most recent building is the Science Teaching Hub. Completed in 2021, the building contains laboratories for subjects including biological sciences, chemistry, geosciences and medical sciences.The Aberdeen Sports Village, located across King Street from the Old Aberdeen campus, houses sports facilities and the aquatics centre. Foresterhill The university's Foresterhill Campus is located approximately 1.75 kilometres (1.09 mi) to the east of the Old Aberdeen campus and is home to the university's Life Sciences and Medicine facilities. It is co-located with Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Royal Aberdeen Children's Hospital and Aberdeen Maternity Hospital, all teaching hospitals operated by regional health board NHS Grampian. The campus accommodates the School of Medicine, Medical Science and Nutrition; the School of Psychology; and the School of Biological Sciences. It also includes the Rowett Institute of Nutrition and Health, the Institute of Medical Sciences, Institute of Applied Health Sciences, Institute of Dentistry, and Institute of Education for Medical & Dental Sciences.The Foresterhill site is managed jointly with NHS Grampian. The university has had a presence at Foresterhill since around 1938, and the management of the site was formalised in 1997 by the completion of an operational agreement between the two parties. Doha, Qatar A new campus in Doha, Qatar was established in May 2017. Known as AFG College with the University of Aberdeen, it is a partnership with Al Faleh Group for Educational and Academic Services (AFG). The courses currently offered are accounting, finance and business management. The campus Principal is Brian Buckley. Former campuses Marischal College Marischal College is a neo-Gothic building, having been rebuilt in 1836–41, and greatly extended several years later. Formerly an open three-sided court, the college now forms a quadrangle as additions to the buildings were opened by Edward VII in 1906 and form the current facade from Broad Street. The building is widely considered to be one of the best examples of neo-Gothic architecture in Great Britain; the architect, Alexander Marshall Mackenzie was a native of Aberdeen as well as an alumnus of the university. The Mitchell Tower at the rear is named for the benefactor (Dr Charles Mitchell) who paid for the graduation hall. The opening of this tower in 1895 was part of celebrations of the 400th anniversary of the university. Until 1996, Marischal College housed the Departments of Molecular & Cell Biology and Biomedical Sciences, which had been there for many decades. From 1996, the departments moved to Kings College campus and Foresterhill campus. Teaching no longer takes place at Marischal College, with many of the departments formerly based there having moved to King's College some decades previously. While graduations and other events (e.g. concerts) took place in the cathedral-like Mitchell Hall in the north wing, for many years much of the building (including the frontage to the street) was derelict. The majority of the building was leased to Aberdeen City Council in 2008, with significant re-development taking place to allow the council to occupy it as its new administrative headquarters. Occupation of the rear portion of the building is retained by the university including the former Marischal Museum and Mitchell Hall, which was used previously for graduation and other academic ceremonies before moving to Elphinstone Hall at King's College. Hilton A small campus at Hilton became part of the university estate following a merger in 2001 between the university and the Aberdeen campus of the Northern College of Education, and temporarily became home to the university's Faculty of Education. It was less than a mile southwest of King's College campus. Following the renovation of the MacRobert Building at King's College to house the School of Education (completed in 2005), the Hilton campus was closed and sold to developers. The campus was demolished and the land is now occupied by a residential development called The Campus. Organisation and administration Governance In common with the other ancient universities in Scotland, the university's structure of governance is largely regulated by the Universities (Scotland) Acts of 1858. This gives the university a tripartite constitution comprising the General Council of senior academics and graduates, the University Court responsible for finances and administration, and the Academic Senate (Senatus Academicus)—the university's supreme academic body. There are correspondingly three main officers of the university. It is nominally headed by the chancellor, a largely ceremonial position traditionally held by the Bishop of Aberdeen, but as a result of the Scottish Reformation holders are now elected for life by the General Council. There is also a rector of the university, who chairs the University Court and is elected by the students for a three-year term to represent their interests. There are also four assessors, ten masters, including the principal and vice principal, and the factor or procurator. The administrative head and chief executive of the university is its principal and vice-chancellor. The principal acts as chair of the Senatus Academicus, and his status as vice-chancellor enables him to perform the functions reserved to the chancellor in the latter's absence, such as the awarding of degrees. University officials The university's three most significant officials are its chancellor, principal, and rector, whose rights and responsibilities are largely derived from the Universities (Scotland) Act 1858. The chancellor is the nominal head of the university. The chancellor since 2013 is Queen Camilla. She is the first female chancellor of the university. The chancellor, or, if necessary, his or her deputy, confers degrees on graduates and chairs the university's General Council. The principal and vice-chancellor of the university is Professor George Boyne. He joined the university on 1 August 2018 and was officially installed in his role on 16 January 2019.The rector of the university has been—since 1860—elected by the students to serve a three-year term of office; before that, the office was appointed. The rector's duties are to chair meetings of the University Court and to represent student views on that body. In November 2021, a new rector was elected by the student body of the university, Martina Chukwuma-Ezike, the CEO of the Asthma and Allergy Foundation. Other notable Aberdeen rectors have included Winston Churchill, Andrew Carnegie, H. H. Asquith, Maggie Chapman and Clarissa Dickson Wright, who was Aberdeen's first female rector. The University Court This body was created by the commissioners during the merger of King's and Marischal in 1870. It was part of a series of reforms introduced to rectify the method of government, with the Court acting as a court of appeal from the Senatus. The Court originally consisted of six members; the rector, representing the students, the principal, and one assessor each to the chancellor, the rector, the General Council and the Senatus. However, today the Court consists of many more members. The Court's principal role is to oversee the management of the revenue, property and other resources of the university. Senatus Academicus The Academic Senate (Latin Senatus Academicus) is the supreme academic body for the university. Its members include all the professors of the university, certain senior readers, a number of senior lecturers and lecturers and elected student senate representatives. It is responsible for authorising degree programmes and issuing all degrees to graduates, and for managing student discipline. The president of the Senate is the university principal. Schools and Institutes The university is divided into 12 schools which are organised within a broad range of disciplines, with the larger schools sub-divided into three teaching colleges. Multi-disciplinary institutes and research centres allow the university's experts to collaborate on pioneering research projects. Symbols of the university The university's coat of arms is an integral part of the current logo, which along with the colours burgundy and white, is used extensively on campus signage, printed materials, and online. Coat of arms The university's coat of arms incorporates those of the founders and locations of the two colleges it is derived from. In the top left quadrant are the arms of the burgh of Old Aberdeen, with the addition of a symbol of knowledge being handed down from above. Top right are those of George Keith, the fifth Earl Marischal. Bottom left are those of Bishop William Elphinstone. The bottom right quarter is a simplified version of the three castles which represent the city of Aberdeen (this symbol of the city also appears prominently on the arms of The Robert Gordon University). Motto The motto of the University of Aberdeen is Initium Sapientiae Timor Domini, which translates from Latin as The beginning of wisdom is fear of the Lord. It is a quote from the Old Testament of the Bible, Psalm 111, verse 10. It also appears in the Book of Proverbs (9:10). The motto can be seen at the archway beside New King's on the High Street at the King's College campus, as well as other campus locations and in formal settings such as on graduation certificates. Tartan A university tartan was created in 1992 as part of the celebrations for the 500th anniversary of the university which took place in 1995. The tartan was designed by the Weavers Incorporation of Aberdeen and Harry Lindley and incorporates colours from the university's coat of arms. Academic dress Academic dress has been worn in the University of Aberdeen since mediaeval times. Aberdeen shared with the other ancient universities the wearing of scarlet gowns (toga rubra) and a trencher for undergraduates, but by the middle of the twentieth century its use amongst the students had faded. Bursars formerly wore a black gown, and were made to perform menial services about college. Female students wore a trencher with scarlet tassels, while male students wore black tassels.Academic dress is usually worn only at formal occasions, such as at graduation, Founder's Day, or academic processions which take place for ceremonial reasons. For undergraduate degrees (e.g. MA, BSc, LLB etc. ), a long black gown is worn with a hood of black silk and lined with silk in a colour which varies depending on discipline. For example, the lining is white silk for all Master of Arts degrees, green silk for Bachelor of Science in pure sciences, and crimson silk for MBChB. A black mortarboard is also worn. For master's degrees (e.g. MSc, MLitt etc.) a long black gown is worn, with a white silk hood lined in a colour that varies by discipline. For PhD, the doctor's scarlet robe is worn with black facings and sleeve lining, along with a black John Knox cap. For other doctoral degrees (e.g. EdD, LLD etc. ), the scarlet robe has facings and sleeve linings in a different colour. Academics Term The academic year at Aberdeen was originally based upon the Scottish Term and Quarter Days, beginning with Martinmas (October – November), Candlemas (January – March), and ending with Whitsunday (April – June). However, today the academic term is divided into two semesters, the First Half-Session and the Second-Half Session, beginning in September and ending in May. Written examinations are sat in November and April and May, and graduation is celebrated either in November or at the end of June. Rankings and reputation Aberdeen is consistently ranked among the top 200 universities in the world and is ranked within the top 20 universities in the United Kingdom according to The Guardian. In the 2019 Times Higher Education University Impact Rankings, Aberdeen was ranked 31st in the world for impact on society. Aberdeen was also named the 2019 Scottish University of the Year by The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide. Over 75 per cent of the university's research was classified as 'world leading' or 'internationally excellent' in the 2014 Research Excellence Framework.Its highest internationally ranked subject is Divinity and Religious Studies, which is ranked at joint 25th in the world and 7th in the UK. It also has an excellent reputation for medical research and many of its subjects are ranked in top 10 in the UK, including Accounting & Finance (ranked 4th in the UK, Complete 2021), Civil Engineering (10th in the UK, Complete 2021), Computing Science (9th in the UK, Guardian 2021), Dentistry (9th in the UK, Complete 2020; 1st in the UK, Guardian 2021), Education (9th in the UK, Complete 2021), Electrical and Electronic Engineering (8th in the UK, Complete 2020), Law (6th in the UK, Complete 2021; 10th in the UK, Guardian 2021), Medicine (4th in the UK, Complete 2021; 2nd in the UK, Guardian 2021), Linguistics (5th in the UK, Complete 2021), Musics (10th in the UK, Guardian 2021), Physics (7th in the UK, Guardian 2021), Sociology (10th in the UK, Guardian 2021), and Sports Science (2nd in the UK, Complete 2021; 10th in the UK, Guardian 2021). Economics was ranked 11th in the UK by Times Subject Rankings and 12th in the UK by Complete University Guide 2019. Admissions Aberdeen was ranked 9th for the average entry tariff by the Complete University Guide 2021 and 9th in the UK for the average entry tariff by Guardian 2021 rankings.The university has one of the smallest percentages of students from lower-class backgrounds, being ranked fifth from bottom for class equality. The university participates in widening access schemes such as the Children's University, REACH Scotland, Access Aberdeen, and ASPIRENorth, in order to promote a more widespread uptake of those traditionally under-represented at university. Lecture series The Gifford Lectures, established in 1887 by Adam Gifford, began at the university (along with the other ancient universities in Scotland) with E.B Tylor's lecture on the Natural History of Religion between 1889 and 1991. Since then, over 30 Gifford Lectures have been given at the university, with some distinguished figures including Hannah Arendt, Alfred North Whitehead, Karl Barth, Paul Tillich, Michael Polanyi, N.T. Wright, and Jaroslav Pelikan.A public lecture series was held in 2011 to commemorate the 400th anniversary of the publication of the King's James Bible. The university is also host to the annual Andrew Carnegie Lecture Series which began in 2014, with the first lecture given by Matthew Barzun.The Elphinstone Institute hosts its own monthly lecture series, which began in 2016, in the MacRobert Building, with lectures usually given on local or Scottish topics. (The Elphinstone Institute also organises The Toulmin Prize, a short-fiction competition with a North East Scotland focus that is open to amateur writers.) The School of Engineering also hosts the RV Jones Distinguished Lecture Series which provides invited lectures from distinguished speakers in areas of engineering related to research within the School of Engineering. Libraries and Museums The library was first located in the nave of King's College Chapel and then moved to a new site in the college in 1870. The current library contains one of the most extensive university library collections in the United Kingdom, with over a million volumes and a quarter of a million ancient and priceless books and manuscripts, including the Hortus sanitatis. The library at Aberdeen was given the right of legal deposit under the Statute of Anne (1710) but this was rescinded in 1837, and as a result has a rare collection of pre-Victorian novels. The core of the original library at King's College was formed from Elphinstone's books that he left to the university. The books were originally housed in a room in the south east tower (now the round tower). They were then moved to a building on the south side of Kings College Chapel, and in 1773 to the west end of the chapel. They were located in 1870 to a new building as illustrated. This library was extended in 1885, with galleries being installed in 1912, reading desks in 1932 and a mezzanine floor in 1964. The Queen Mother Library had been the university's main library since 1965, and the original library in King's College was replaced with the King's College Conference Centre in 1991. The Queen Mother Library was refurbished and expanded in 1982.The Sir Duncan Rice Library was officially opened on 24 September 2012 by Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth accompanied by the Duke of Edinburgh, replacing the Queen Mother Library. It was designed by the Danish architectural firm Schmidt Hammer Lassen at the cost of £57 million. The building sits on a base of Scottish stone. The ground floor is double-height with seven floors above. The building is clad in zebra-like jagged stripes of white and clear glass. In the interior void spaces are located centrally. Contrasting with the geometric exterior, the central atrium formed by the void spaces has an organic form, shifting in location across the levels. It has won numerous awards for its architecture.The university also has the Taylor Law Library which is located in the taylor Building in Old Aberdeen, and the Medical Library on the Foresterhill Campus, which covers the Medicine and Medical Sciences disciplines. Christ's College also possesses its own Divinity library. The university maintains several museums and galleries, open free to the public. The university's collections are internationally renowned and are recognised as of national significance by the Scottish Government. Originating in the eighteenth century, they now have over 300,000 items across a wide range of Human Culture, Medicine and Health, and Natural History. The Zoology Museum is officially classified as a Recognised Collection of national significance to Scotland and features displays from protozoa to the great whales, including taxidermy, skeletal material, study skins, fluid-preserved specimens and models. Student life As of 2019/20 the university had 15,185 students, of which 5,060 were postgraduates. In 2009/10 students represented 120 countries with about 46% men, 54% women. Of all of undergraduates, 19% were mature students (i.e. aged 25 years or more). The university has more than 550 different undergraduate degree programmes and more than 120 postgraduate taught programmes. Students' Association The student body is represented by a students' association known as Aberdeen University Students' Association (AUSA). Additionally, the elected Rector of the University of Aberdeen serves along with the AUSA president and another sabbatical officer as students' representatives on the University Court. AUSA does not operate a traditional students' union, instead operating out of a university building, The Students Union Building, formerly The Hub, helping to support students and provide events and studying space. A large students' union formerly occupied an impressive granite building on the corner of Gallowgate and Upperkirkgate in the city centre, opposite Marischal College, but it closed in 2003. A second, smaller union opened at nearby Littlejohn Street a couple of years later, but by 2010 it too had closed.The organisation has been involved in the creation of The Hub, a university-owned dining and social centre created by an extensive renovation of the former Central Refectory at the King's College campus. It provides facilities for the whole university community (students and staff) and opened in 2006. A more traditional social space, the Butchart Student Centre, opened in 2009. It acts as the HQ of the Students' Association and provides a wide range of student facilities, but due to city council licensing regulations there is no bar. Facilities at the Butchart Centre include a large cafe, second-hand bookstore, facilities for student societies and offices. The Butchart Centre was converted from what had been the campus sports centre before the opening of the Aberdeen Sports Village nearby. AUSA operates out of the Johnston Building. Student societies and organisations There are over a hundred clubs and societies formally affiliated with the students' association. The students' association is responsible for sport at the university, which is managed by the Aberdeen University Sports Union, an AUSA committee. All registered students are eligible to join any of these clubs or societies. The university's oldest student organisation is the Aberdeen University Debater, founded by JF Maclennan in 1848 as the King's College Debating Society. In 1871, a Literary Society was started by WM Ramsay, and four years later a Choral Society came to life. In 1884, the society also took the first steps towards the introduction of a students' representative council under support from Alexander Bain, the then Rector. The creation of the Union in 1895 provided a new debating chamber in Marischal College and the society's first permanent home. The chamber beneath Mitchell Hall in Marischal College is Scotland's oldest purpose-built debating chamber.The first successful university newspaper, Alma Mater, began under the auspices of the University of Aberdeen Debating Society in 1883. The Alma Mater was replaced by The Gaudie, which has been in circulation since 1934, and is currently free-of-charge. The Gaudie is recognised as one of the oldest student newspapers in Scotland and the United Kingdom. It currently consists of 32 pages split into the sections News, Features, Science and Environment, Opine, International, Puzzles, Satire, Life and Style, Arts, Gaming and Tech, and Sports. The Aberdeen Student Show is a musical and theatrical show, usually with a strong comedy element, staged every year since 1921. Its purpose is to raise money for charity, as part of the Aberdeen Students' Charities Campaign (“ASCC”). From the start it has involved a number of young writers, performers and musicians who have gone on to greater renown in the fields of theatre, media and the arts. Each year a student-led torcher parade is held. First held in 1889, it is the largest of its kind in Europe. Student groups and societies build floats and parade in fancy dress through the city centre to raise money for local charities. Traditionally spectators donate money in the form of coppers, a colloquial term for 1p and 2p coins. The Aberdeen Future Fund is an alumni fund run by the Development Trust. Since founding in 1998, Aberdeen Future Fund has raised over £2.5 million of unrestricted funds. Past projects have included a book fund for the Heavy Demand section in the library, providing Safe Campus leaflets, contributing to the student hardship fund, providing training mannequins for Clinical Skills, the organ for King's College Chapel, and funding for intramural sports. University accommodation Halls of residence are managed by the university. Two large concentrations of university accommodation are provided on the campus in Old Aberdeen and one mile north at the Hillhead Student Village, accessible by a walk through Seaton Park. Campus accommodation in the heart of Old Aberdeen consists of self-catered King's Hall and Elphinstone Road Halls. The university has a First-Year Accommodation Guarantee providing that the student accept their firm offer before a set date prior to the beginning of term. In 2014–15, the university ran out of rooms and had to resort to temporary accommodation. The university continues to monitor accommodation costs and where possible offers discretionary support to students, to improve access to higher education.Halls of residence include: The first modern halls of residence built by the university on the King's College campus was Crombie halls, named after James Edward Crombie. They opened in 1960. The Crombie-Johnston halls were closed in 2017 following a decline in demand for catered accommodation.The Elphinstone Road halls were completed in 1992. Sports clubs and the Sports Union The students' association is responsible for sport at the university, which is managed by the Aberdeen University Sports Union, an AUSA committee. Established in 1889, it is affiliated to the BUCS and SSS and encompasses over fifty sports clubs. There are large playing fields at the back of King's College and also Aberdeen Sports Village, a partnership between the University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen City Council and sportscotland. It opened on 22 August 2009. An extension containing the aquatics centre opened on 5 May 2014.A notable club is the Aberdeen University Football Club, which was formed in 1872, and currently competes in the SJFA North First Division. The Aberdeen University Rugby Football Club, founded in 1871, has a long history of producing both Scottish and British Lions players. The annual boat race between Aberdeen University Boat Club and Robert Gordon University Boat Club has been competed for since 1995. The University of Aberdeen has lost only four times, in 2006, 2009, 2012 and 2013. Aberdeen Sports Village served as one of the official pre-games training venues of the Cameroon Olympic Team prior to the London 2012 Olympic Games. Music There are a large number of ensembles at the University of Aberdeen. Some are directed by academic staff, while others are run by students both in and out of the department and include; Balinese Gamelan, Baroque Ensemble, Big Band, Cantores ad Portam, Chapel Choir, Choral Society, Concert Band, String Orchestra and Symphony Orchestra. Student media There are a number of student media organisations at the University of Aberdeen. These include The Gaudie (student newspaper), Granite City TV and Aberdeen Student Radio (ASR). Traditions Sponsio Academica The Sponsio Academica is the oath, originally in Latin, taken by students matriculating into the four ancient Scottish universities (Edinburgh, St. Andrews, Aberdeen and Glasgow). This tradition now has been digitised at Aberdeen and is agreed to as part of an online matriculation process. Originally, new students matriculated in Mitchell Hall where the Chancellor would give a welcoming address. Since 1888 the School of Medicine has used a form of the Sponsio Academica for graduating students to affirm in response to the discontinuation of the oath hitherto taken by students in all faculties:I solemnly declare that as a Graduate of Medicine of the University of Aberdeen, I will exercise my profession to the best of my knowledge and ability, for the good of all persons whose health may be placed in my care, and for the public weal; that I will hold in due regard the honourable traditions and obligations of the Medical Profession, and will do nothing inconsistent therewith; and that I will be loyal to the University and endeavour to promote its welfare and maintain its reputation.' Founders' Day Usually held annually in February, on Founders’ Day, the university community pays tribute to its historic origins as an ancient university and in particular, the role played by William Elphinstone and other benefactors in the establishment of the university. The ceremony begins with an academic procession through the university and concludes with a service in King's College Chapel. Talks are given by university lecturers and invited guests. A candle is lit in the chapel to give thanks to Elphinstone and the other patron fathers. Installing of the rector The rector, an ancient post dating back to the foundation of the university in 1495, is the students’ representative, particularly in welfare matters, and sits on the University Court. Tradition dictates that the University of Aberdeen's new rector must ride through Old Aberdeen aloft a bull carried at shoulder height by students of the university. The ceremony includes a colourful academic procession representing civic, student and academic life in Aberdeen. University staff and students, along with representatives from the City and Aberdeenshire Councils, Incorporated Trades, MSPs, and alumni, attend the ceremony which is followed by a reception in the King's Conference Centre.The reception culminates with the new Rector being carried by the student mascot, Angus the Bull, from King's College to the St Machar Bar in the High Street of Old Aberdeen, where tradition also dictates that he buy a round of drinks for his student supporters. Bajan Bajan, a medieval term (literally 'yellow beak' – bec jaune), describing trainees in the pre-student year, was traditionally applied to Aberdeen University first year undergraduates. Female undergraduates were referred to as bajanellas. Second year students were called 'Semis', and these usually played jokes upon or clashed with bajans. Semis would usually tear first year's gowns.These terms were based on the four years of the degree: B first year (bajan) S second year (semi) T third year (tertian) M fourth year (magistrand) Notable alumni and academics Nobel Prizes (alumni and faculty) See also Ancient universities Armorial of UK universities List of medieval universities List of universities in the United Kingdom 5677 Aberdonia, minor planet named after the University of Aberdeen Notes References External links Official website Aberdeen University Debater University of Aberdeen Students' Association Scholars and Literati at the University of Aberdeen (1495–1800), Repertorium Eruditorum Totius Europae – RETE Jilin University (JLU; 吉林大学) is a public university in Changchun, Jilin, China. It is affiliated with the Ministry of Education. The university is part of Project 211, Project 985, and the Double First-Class Construction. History Founded in 1946 as the Northeast College of Administration in Harbin, Heilongjiang, Jilin University merged with many universities and colleges and changed its name many times. In May 1948, the Northeast Administration College merged with the Harbin University and was renamed Northeast Academy of Science. In November 1948, the Northeast Academy of Science moved to Shenyang, Liaoning and restored the name of Northeast Administration College. In 1950, it was renamed as Northeast People's University. After the Korean War broke out, it was relocated to Changchun, Jilin. In 1958, it was renamed Jilin University.In 2000, then Jilin University, then Jilin University of Technology, then Norman Bethune University of Medical Sciences, then Changchun University of Science and Technology (established 1951), and then Changchun Institute of Posts and Telecommunications combined to form the current Jilin University. On August 29, 2004, then University of Military Logistics also merged into Jilin University. The university established a satellite campus in Zhuhai, Guangdong in 2003. Academics The university has seven campuses in six districts that are home to 47 colleges covering 13 academic disciplines, including philosophy, economics, law, literature, education, history, science, engineering, agriculture, medicine, management, military science and art. The university has five state key laboratories, one national engineering laboratory, six national-local joint laboratories, one national engineering and technology research center, six humanities and social science key research bases of the Ministry of Education, ten key laboratories of the Ministry of Education, five engineering research centers of the Ministry of Education and 18 key laboratories of other ministries. It is a comprehensive and national key university. JLU offers a variety of degree programs. It has 129 undergraduate programs, 304 Master's degree programs, 244 doctoral degree programs, and 42 centers for post-doctoral studies, 47 first-class university and discipline construction projects. There are 73,702 full-time students, with 27,397 postgraduate students, 43,260 undergraduate and college students, over 2,000 overseas students. There are 6,657 faculty members in total, among which there are 2,110 professors and 1,618 doctoral advisors. There are 43 members of Chinese Academy of Sciences or Chinese Academy of Engineering (including 33 adjunct members), 7 senior professors of philosophical and social sciences, 20 members of assessment group of the Academic Degrees Committee of the State Council, 29 involved in the “Ten Thousand Talents Program”, 8 national-level outstanding teachers, 5 chief experts in research and construction projects of the Marxism theory in the central government, 6 chief scientists in the national “Program 973”, 15 young and middle-aged experts with prominent contribution, 59 selected in the “Changjiang Scholars Program”, 33 winners of the “National Outstanding Youth Fund”, 31 winners of “National Excellent Youth Fund” and 90 selected in “Changbai Mountain Scholars” in Jilin Province. Rankings and reputation Jilin University was one of the Project 985 universities in China to appear in the world’s top 500 universities in the first global university ranking in 2003, according to the Academic Ranking of World Universities. The joint THE-QS World University Rankings 2005 ranked Jilin University =245th in the world.As of 2021, the CWTS Leiden Ranking table 2021 ranked Jilin University at 11th in the world based on their publications for the time period 2016–2019. In 2021, it ranked 70th among the universities around the world by SCImago Institutions Rankings. The university ranked 66th among the leading institutions globally in the Nature Index 2021 Annual Tables by Nature Research, that measure the high-quality research published in 82 high-quality science journals.The University Ranking By Academic Performance 2021/22 ranked Jilin University at 105th globally. Jilin University ranked 223rd worldwide and 23rd nationwide in the Center for World University Ranking (CWUR) 2022/23. Facilities There are more than 50 multimedia and language learning audiovisual classrooms. Special attention has been paid to the construction of 20 basic science laboratories. The university library claims a collection of 7.57 million books and is designated as the library of United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and World Bank. It serves as the Comprehensive Information Center of Liberal Arts of the Education Ministry, the only Foreign Scientific Text Book Center in Northeast China, and the National Humanities and Social Science Higher Education Books Import Center. It is one of the seven centers of China Academic Library and Information System (CALIS) Center in Northeast China. Several campuses have gymnasiums, stadiums, and arenas for basketball, volleyball, table tennis and artistic gymnastics. The Nanling Campus Stadium, which has a grass soccer field surrounded by standard synthetic racetracks, has 10,000 seats. There are tennis and basketball courts throughout the campus. Jilin University has established ties with more than 289 universities, colleges, and research institutes in 39 countries/districts. Over 2,000 foreign students currently attend the university. People Notable alumni Notable faculty Colleges, Institutions and other Affiliated Organizations There are 47 colleges or schools, as well as a few institutions and other affiliated organizations within 9 divisions in Jilin University, including: See also Badabu - Part of the university's Xinmin Campus References External links Jilin University (English) Archived 2020-03-16 at the Wayback Machine R. G. Kar Medical College and Hospital is a public medical college and hospital in Shyambazar, Kolkata, West Bengal, India. It was established in 1886 to ensure self-sufficiency (Swaraj) in medical education and services in the colonial era. It was under University of Calcutta from 1916 to 2003 and affiliated to West Bengal University of Health Sciences when it was established in 2003. R.G. Kar Medical College and Hospital completed 100 years of its service in 2016. This college is a co-educational institution that is recognized by the MCI and affiliated with the West Bengal University of Health Sciences. History Established in 1886 as the Calcutta School of Medicine, it had no affiliated hospital and practiced out of Mayo Hospital. In 1902, it moved to its own complex including a school building and hospital. In 1904, it merged with the National College of Physicians and Surgeons of Bengal and, after a period of further growth, was renamed as the Belgachia Medical College in 1916. From 1918 to 1948, the college was known as Carmichael Medical College in honor of Thomas Gibson-Carmichael, the Governor of Bengal at the college's inauguration in 1916. The institution was given its current name on 12 May 1948 to honor Dr. Radha Govinda Kar who first conceived of it. Dr. Suresh Prasad Sarbadhikari was the first President of the institution, and Kar was its first Secretary. In May 1958, control of the college was passed to West Bengal's government. Location This college is located 11 km (6.8 mi) from the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport, 4.5 km (2.8 mi) from the Sealdah Railway Station in Kolkata and one km (0.62 mi) from the Shyambazar Metro Station which runs in the Line 1. The closest bus stand to the institution in the R.G Kar Road Bus Stand. Courses R. G. Kar Medical College and Hospital provides an undergraduate course that is MBBS, as well as postgraduate degree & diploma courses and super speciality courses. These courses are offered by the institute under various departments such as Anatomy, General Medicine, Anesthesiology, Biochemistry, Physiology, Medicine, Ophthalmology, Cardiology and many more. Facilities Canteen Computer Laboratories Library Medical Facilities See also Calcutta Homoeopathic Medical College & Hospital Calcutta Unani Medical College and Hospital List of hospitals in India Healthcare in India References External links Official website Science (from Latin scientia, meaning knowledge) is a systematic enterprise that builds and organizes knowledge in the form of testable explanations and predictions about the universe. Modern science is typically divided into three major branches that consist of the natural sciences (biology, chemistry, physics, astronomy and Earth science), which study nature in the broadest sense; the social sciences (e.g. psychology, sociology, economics, history) which study people and societies; and the formal sciences (e.g. mathematics, logic, theoretical computer science), which study abstract concepts. There is disagreement, however, on the formal sciences being a science as they do not rely on empirical evidence. Disciplines that use science, such as engineering and medicine, are described as applied sciences. A Acanthochronology – study of cactus spines grown in time ordered sequence. Acarology – study of mites and ticks. Aceology – science of remedies, or of therapeutics; iamatology. Acology – study of medical remedies. Acoustics – science of sound. Actinobiology – synonymous with radiobiology. Adenology – study of glands Aedoeology – science of generative organs. Aerobiology – study of airborne organisms. Aerodonetics – science or study of gliding. Aerodynamics – dynamics of gases; science of movement in a flow of air or gas. Aerolithology – study of aerolites; meteorites. Aeropalynology – study of pollens and spores in atmosphere. Aerology – study of the atmosphere. Aeronautics – study of navigation through air or space. Aerostatics – science of air pressure; art of ballooning. Agnoiology – study of ignorance. Agonistics – art and theory of prize-fighting. Agricultural chemistry – study of influence in chemical processes in plants. Agriology – comparative study of primitive peoples. Agrobiology – study of plant nutrition; soil yields. Agroecology – study of ecological processes applied to agricultural production systems. Agrogeology – study of agrominerals. Agrology – study of agricultural soils. Agronomics – study of productivity of land. Agrostology – science or study of grasses. Alethiology – study of truth. Algedonics – science of pleasure and pain. Algology (botany) – study of algae. Algology (medicine) – study of pain. Anaesthesiology – study of anaesthetics. Anatomy – study of the structure of the body. Andragogy – theory and practice of education of adults. Andrology – study of men's physiology. Anemology – study of wind. Angiology – study of blood flow and lymphatic system. Anthropobiology – study of human biology. Anthropology – study of human cultures. Anthrozoology – study of human-animal interaction. Apiology – study of bees. Aquatic ecology – study of aquatic environment. Arachnology – study of arachnids. Archaeology – study of human material remains. Archelogy – study of first principles. Archology – science of the origins of government. Areology – study of Mars. Aretaics – science of virtue. Aristology – science or art of dining. Aromachology – study of smell and odor. Arthrology – study of joints. Arthropodology – study of arthropods like insects and arachnids. Astacology – science of crayfish. Asteroseismology – study of star oscillations. Astheniology – study of diseases of weakening and aging. Astrobotany – study of plants in space. Astrobiology – study of extraterrestrial life. Astrodynamics – study of motion of rockets and spacecraft. Astrogeology – study of extraterrestrial geology. Astronomy – study of celestial bodies and phenomena. Astrophysics – study of behaviour of interstellar matter. Atmology – the science of aqueous vapor. Audiology – study of hearing. Autecology – study of ecology of one species. Autology – scientific study of oneself. Auxology – science of growth. Avionics – science of electronic devices for aircraft. Axiology – science of the ultimate nature of value. B Bacteriology – study of bacteria. Balneology – science of the therapeutic use of baths. Batrachology – study of frogs. Barodynamics – science of the support and mechanics of bridges. Barology – study of gravitational force. Bathymetry – study of underwater depth of ocean floors or lake floors. Batology – the study of brambles. Bibliology – study of books. Bibliotics – study of documents to determine authenticity. Bioecology – study of interaction of life in the environment. Biogeochemistry – study of chemistry of the surface of the Earth. Biology – study of life. Biochemistry – study of chemical processes within and relating to living organism. Biomechanics – study of the structure, function and motion of the mechanical aspects of biological systems. Biometrics – study of biological measurement for security purposes. Bionomics – study of organisms interacting in their environments. Biophysics – study of physics of biological phenomena. Biopsychology – application of the science of biology to the study of psychology. Biotribology – study of friction, wear and lubrication of biological systems. Botany – study of plants. Bromatology – study of food. Bryology – study of mosses and liverworts. C Cacogenics – study of racial degeneration. Caliology – study of bird's nests. Calorifics – study of heat. Cambistry – science of international exchange. Campanology – study of bells. Carcinology – study of crabs and other crustaceans. Cardiology – study of the heart. Caricology – study of sedges. Carpology – study of fruit. Cartography – science of making maps and globes. Castrametation – art of designing a camp. Catacoustics – science of echoes or reflected sounds. Catallactics – science of commercial exchange. Catechectics – art of teaching by question and answer. Celestial mechanics – study of motion of objects in outer space. Cell biology – study of the different structures and functions of both eukaryote and prokaryote cells. Cetology – study of whales and dolphins. Chalcography – art of engraving on copper or brass. Chalcotriptics – art of taking rubbings from ornamental brasses. Chaology – study of chaos or chaos theory. Characterology – study of development of character. Chemistry – study of properties and behaviours of substances. Chirocosmetics – beautifying the hands; art of manicure. Chirography – study of handwriting or penmanship. Chirology – study of the hands. Chiropody – medical science of feet. Chorology – science of the geographic description of anything. Chrematistics – study of wealth; political economy. Chromatics – study of color. Chronobiology – study of biological rhythms. Chrysology – study of precious metals. Ciselure – art of chasing metal. Classical mechanics – study of motion of macroscopic objects. Climatology – study of climate. Clinology – study of aging or individual decline after maturity. Codicology – study of manuscripts. Coleopterology – study of beetles and weevils. Cometology – study of comets. Computer science – study of processes that interact with data. Conchology – study of shells. Connectomics – study of connectomes. Contact mechanics – study of the deformation of solids that touch each other. Coprology – study of feces. Cosmetology – study of cosmetics. Cosmochemistry – study of the chemical composition of matter in the universe and the processes that led to those compositions. Cosmology – study of the universe. Craniology – study of the skull. Criminology – study of crime and criminals. Cryobiology – study of life under cold conditions. Cryptology – study of codes. Cryptozoology – study of animals for whose existence there is no conclusive proof. Ctetology – study of the inheritance of acquired characteristics. Cybernetics – study of circular causal processes (such as feedbacks). Cyclonology – study of tropical cyclones, e.g. hurricanes. Cynology – scientific study of dogs. Cytology – study of living cells. D Dactyliology – study of rings. Dactylography – study of fingerprints. Dactylology – study of sign language. Deltiology – collection and study of picture postcards. Demography – study of population. Demology – study of human behaviour. Dendrochronology – study of tree rings. Dendrology – study of trees. Deontology – theory or study of moral obligation. Dermatoglyphics – study of skin patterns and fingerprints. Dermatology – study of skin. Desmology – study of ligaments. Diabology – study of devils. Diagraphics – art of making diagrams or drawings. Dialectology – study of dialects. Dietetics – study of prevention of health conditions and diseases through human nutrition and regulation of diet. Dioptrics – study of light refraction. Diplomatics – science of deciphering ancient writings and texts. Diplomatology – study of diplomats. Docimology – art of assaying. Dosiology – study of doses. Dynamics – study of forces and their effects on motion. Dysgenics – study of racial degeneration. E Ecclesiology – study of church affairs. Eccrinology – study of excretion. Ecology – study of environment. Economics – study of material wealth (production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services). Edaphology – study of soils. Egyptology – study of ancient Egypt. Eidology – study of mental imagery. Ekistics – study of human settlement. Electrochemistry – study of relations between electricity and chemicals. Electrodynamics – study of the effects arising from the interactions of electric currents with magnets, with other currents, or with themselves. Electrology – study of electricity. Electrostatics – study of static electricity. Electromagnetism – study of electromagnetic force. Embryology – study of embryos Emetology – study of vomiting. Emmenology – study of menstruation. Endemiology – study of local diseases. Endocrinology – study of glands. Energetics – study of energy under transformation within various fields. Engineering studies – study of engineering. Enigmatology – study of enigmas (puzzles). Entomology – study of insects. Entozoology – study of parasites that live inside larger organisms. Enzymology – study of enzymes. Ephebiatrics – branch of medicine dealing with adolescence. Epidemiology – study of diseases and epidemics. Epileptology – study of epilepsy. Epistemology – study of grounds of knowledge. Eremology – study of deserts. Ergology – study of effects of work on humans. Ergonomics – study of people at work. Escapology – study of freeing oneself from constraints. Eschatology – study of death; final matters. Ethnobiology – study of dynamic relationships between peoples. Ethnobotany – study of a region's plants and their practical uses through the traditional knowledge of a local culture and people. Ethnogeny – study of origins of races or ethnic groups. Ethnochoreology – study of dances and its implication in culture. Ethnomusicology – study of comparative musical systems. Ethnology – study of cultures. Ethnomethodology – study of everyday communication and social interaction. Ethology – study of natural or biological character. Ethonomics – study of economic and ethical principles of a society. Etiology – science of causes, especially of disease. Etymology – study of origins of words. Euthenics – science concerned with improving living conditions. Exobiology – study of extraterrestrial life. Exoplanetology – study of exoplanets. F Felinology – study of felines. Finance – science or study of money management. Floristry – art of cultivating and selling flowers. Fluid dynamics – study of flow of fluids. Fluid mechanics – study of fluids behaviour at rest and in motion. Fluid statics – study of fluids behaviour at rest. Fluviology – study of watercourses. Folkloristics – study of folklore and fables. Forestry – study of the creation, management, use, conservation, and repair of forests and associated resources. Fracture mechanics – study of the propagation of cracks in materials. Futurology – study of future. G Garbology – study of garbage Gastroenterology – study of the digestive system Gastronomy – study of fine dining Gemmology – study of gems and jewels Gender Studies – study of gender Genealogy – study of descent of families Genesiology – study of reproduction and heredity Genetics – study of genes Geochemistry – study of chemistry of the Earth's crust Geochronology – study of measuring geological time Geography – study of surface of the earth and its inhabitants Geology – study of the rocks of a planet Geometry – study the sizes, shapes, positions, angles and dimensions of things. Geomorphogeny – study of the characteristics, origins, and development of land forms Geomorphology – study of landforms and landform evolution Geoponics – study of agriculture Geotechnics – study of increasing habitability of the Earth Geratology – study of decadence and decay Gerocomy – study of old age Gerontology – study of the elderly and aging Gigantology – study of giants Glaciology – study of ice ages and glaciation Glossology – study of language; study of the tongue Glyptography – art of engraving on gems Glyptology – study of gem engravings Gnomonics – the art of measuring time using sundials Gnosiology – study of knowledge; philosophy of knowledge Gnotobiology – study of life in germ-free conditions Graminology – study of grasses Grammatology – study of systems of writing Graphemics – study of systems of representing speech in writing Graphology – study of handwriting Gromatics – science of surveying Gynaecology – study of women's physiology Gyrostatics – study of rotating bodies H Haemataulics – study of movement of blood through blood vessels Hagiology – study of saints Halieutics – study of fishing Hamartiology – study of sin Harmonics – study of musical acoustics Hedonics – part of ethics or psychology dealing with pleasure Helcology – study of ulcers Heliology – science of the Sun Helioseismology – study of Sun's interior by observing its surface oscillations Helminthology – study of worms Hematology – study of blood Hemodynamics – study of the dynamics behind blood circulation Hepatology – study of liver, gallbladder, biliary tree, and pancreas Heredity – study of passing of traits from parents to offspring Heresiology – study of heresies Hermeology – study of Mercury Herpetology – study of reptiles and amphibians Hierology – science of sacred matters Hippiatrics – study of diseases of horses Hippology – study of horses Histology – study of the tissues of organisms Histopathology – study of changes in tissue due to disease Historiography – study of writing history Historiology – study of history Homiletics – art of preaching Home Economics – deals with home and economics Hoplology – study of human combative behavior and performance Horography – art of constructing sundials or clocks Horology – science of time measurement Horticulture – study of gardening Hydrobiology – study of aquatic organisms Hydrodynamics – study of movement in liquids Hydrogeology – study of ground water Hydrography – study of investigating bodies of water Hydrokinetics – study of motion of fluids Hydrology – study of water resources Hydrometeorology – study of atmospheric moisture Hydropathy – study of treating diseases with water Hydrostatics – study of fluids behaviour at rest Hyetology – science of rainfall Hygiastics – science of health and hygiene Hygienics – study of sanitation; health Hygiology – hygienics; study of cleanliness Hygroscopy – study of humidity Hygrometry – science of humidity Hymnography – study of writing hymns Hymnology – study of hymns Hypnology – study of sleep; study of hypnosis Hypsography – science of measuring heights I Iamatology – study of remedies Iatrology – treatise or text on medical topics; study of medicine Iatromathematics – archaic practice of medicine in conjunction with astrology Ichnography – art of drawing ground plans; a ground plan Ichnology – science of fossilized footprints Ichthyology – study of fish Iconography – study of drawing symbols Iconology – study of icons; symbols Ideogeny – study of origins of ideas Ideology – science of ideas; system of ideas used to justify behaviour Idiomology – study of idiom, jargon or dialect Idiopsychology – study of the psychology of one's own mind Immunochemistry – study of chemistry of the immune system Immunogenetics – study of genetic characteristics of immunity Immunology – study of immunity Immunopathology – study of immunity to disease Information technology (IT) – study of the telecommunication and the use of computers Insectology – study of insects Irenology – study of peace Iridology – study of the iris; diagnosis of disease based on the iris of the eye K Kalology – study of beauty Karyology – study of cell nuclei Kinematics – study of motion Kinesics – study of gestural communication Kinesiology – study of human movement and posture Kinetics – study of forces producing or changing motion Koniology – study of atmospheric pollutants and dust Ktenology – science of putting people to death Kymatology – study of wave motion L Labeorphily – collection and study of beer bottle labels Larithmics – study of population statistics Laryngology – study of larynx Lepidopterology – study of butterflies and moths Leprology – study of leprosy Lexicology – study of words and their meanings Lexigraphy – art of definition of words Lichenology – study of lichens Library and information science – study of organization, access, collection, and protection/regulation of information, whether in physical or digital forms. through The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai Act, 1987. The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University is the only medical university in Tamil Nadu capable of granting affiliation to new medical and paramedical colleges, government- or self-financed, and awarding degrees (also note that until 1988, all degrees in health sciences in Tamil Nadu were awarded by the University of Madras). Administration The Chancellor and Pro-Chancellor of the university are the Governor and the Minister of Health and Family Welfare of Tamil Nadu, respectively. The Vice-Chancellor is the main academic officer and administrator in the everyday functioning of the university and is appointed by the Government of Tamil Nadu. Future The university is planning to set up a 500-bed hospital on four acres of land on the outskirts of the Raj Bhavan campus, with 300 beds set to be installed in the first year. List of vice-chancellors Affiliated private medical colleges Government Medical Colleges (Allopathy) Government Medical Colleges (Dental) Government Medical Colleges (AYUSH) Category B Government Aided Medical Colleges See also Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University Baba Farid University of Health Sciences Dr. YSR University of Health Sciences Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Uttarakhand Medical Education University Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences Kerala University of Health Sciences Madhya Pradesh Medical Science University Maharashtra University of Health Sciences Odisha University of Health Sciences Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences Rajasthan University of Health Sciences Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences Srimanta Sankaradeva University of Health Sciences West Bengal University of Health Sciences References External links Official website The Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences (SAIMS) is a private medical college located in Indore, Madhya Pradesh, India. The institute also features Mohak Hitech Speciality Hospital within the campus, the hospital performed youngest bariatric surgery in India. The institute is a part of Bhandari Group of Hospitals and Institutions. Background The institute was established by Dr Vinod Bhandari in 2003. It is named after the Indian yogi and philosopher Sri Aurobindo. SAIMS also has the largest campus among medical colleges in Madhya Pradesh. The institute was recognised as the International Center of Excellence for Bariatric & Metabolic Surgery by Surgical Review Corporation (SRC), USA in the year 2012.The institute became the first Indian centre of excellence solely devoted to training and research & development in the realm of minimally invasive surgery in November 2023, when it entered into a joint venture with IRCAD. IRCAD India is headed by its President Dr. Mohit Bhandari. The agreement helps the availability of expensive medical instruments to patients in India and nurture the next generation of surgeons through artificial intelligence (AI) and augmented reality (AR). Sister institutions and hospitals Within the main campus- Sri Aurobindo Institute of Technology (Engineering) Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences Hospital Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical College & PG Institute Sri Aurobindo College of Dentistry & PG Institute Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences College of Nursing Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences College of Allied Health & Paramedical Studies Sri Aurobindo Institute of Speech & Hearing Mohak Hitech Speciality Hospital Mohak Cancer Hospital Sri Aurobindo Institute of Laser Treatment Sri Aurobindo Institute of Library and Information Science Sri Aurobindo Institute of Management and Science Sri Aurobindo Institute of Pharmacy Laparoscopy Academy of Surgical Education and Research (LASER)Other associated and acquired institutions and hospitals- Bhandari Hospital and Research Centre Indore Institute of Medical Sciences PSG Institute of Medical Sciences and Research is a teaching hospital and research institute located in Peelamedu, Coimbatore. It was established in 1985 as a part of PSG Group. It has NABH accreditation. PSG Hospitals, a 1400-bed, tertiary care hospital was recently awarded with JCI prime certification and has become the first hospital in TamilNadu to receive the accreditation. The hospital is affiliated to the PSG Institute of Medical Sciences and Research and has been recognized as an institution that offers students with multiple facilities at the undergraduate and postgraduate level. PSG Institute of Paramedical Sciences and Nursing are associated with the institute. Teaching PSG Institute of Medical Sciences and Research offers teaching from undergraduate to postgraduate levels. Rankings The PSG College of Pharmacy was ranked 51 by the National Institutional Ranking Framework pharmacy ranking of 2020. and 27 among medical colleges. and ranked 4th in the National Level in the recently released Outlook Rankings PSG received it's JCI-PRIME certification on August 24, 2021. Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) is a Medical Institute under State Legislature Act and a speciality hospital in Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh, India. SVIMS was conceived on the lines of All India Institute of Medical Sciences Delhi, and was created by an act of the Andhra Pradesh State Legislature. The foundation stone was laid on 18 April 1986 by N. T. Rama Rao, the then Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh. The hospital started functioning from 2 February 1993 and later became a Medical Institute under State Legislature Act in 1995. The current director is Dr. R.V.Kumar Rankings The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranked Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences 72 overall in India in 2019, 77 among universities and 29th in the medical ranking. It is affiliated to Dr. YSR University of Health Sciences Academics The college offers the 4+1⁄2-year M.B.B.S. course with a one-year compulsory rotating internship. There are 175 seats which are filled through NEET UG exam. Postgraduate and doctoral courses Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences offers postgraduate courses in almost all super specialty subjects including surgery, medicine, etc. Similarly it offers a variety of doctoral courses including MCh i Neurosurgery, Cardiac Surgery among others and DM in Cardiology, Neurology etc. There are more than 28 post graduate and post doctoral courses. References External links Official website The Keio Medical Science Prize (Japanese: 慶應医学賞) is a Japanese prize in medical sciences. Introduction The prize is awarded to scientists who made significant contributions to the field of medical sciences or life sciences. And these contributions can further promote the peace and prosperity of mankind and human society.The prize award is 20 million Japanese Yen (approximately 180,000 US$). A medal is also awarded to the winner. Every year maximum two winners are awarded. A prize ceremony is held every year normally at Keio University, Tokyo, Japan. Awardees Source: Keio University See also Keio University Lasker Awards Gairdner Foundation Wightman Award Wolf Prize in Medicine List of medicine awards References External links The Keio Medical Science Prize Homepage The University of the West Indies (UWI), originally University College of the West Indies, is a public university system established to serve the higher education needs of the residents of 18 English-speaking countries and territories in the Caribbean: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, and Turks and Caicos Islands. Each country is either a member of the Commonwealth of Nations or a British Overseas Territory. The aim of the university is to help unlock the potential for economic and cultural growth in the West Indies, thus allowing improved regional autonomy. The university was originally instituted as an independent external college of the University of London. The university has produced students who have excelled in a number of disciplines, such as the arts and sciences, business, politics, and sports. Notable alumni and faculty include three Nobel Laureates, 72 Rhodes Scholars, three Gates Cambridge Scholarship winners, one Emmy award winner, one Man Booker Prize winner, one American Book Award winner, multiple Commonwealth Short Story Prize winners, 18 current or former Caribbean Heads of Government, two Olympic gold medallists, among other award winners. The university's cricket team previously participated in West Indian domestic cricket, but now participates as part of a Combined Campuses and Colleges team. The UWI campus in Mona, Jamaica, serves as the headquarters of the University Of The West Indies. Besides, UWI Mona, the University has four major university centres: UWI Cave Hill (Barbados), UWI St. Augustine (Trinidad and Tobago), UWI Five Islands (Antigua and Barbuda), and the regional UWI Open Campus in the UWI-funding Caribbean nations. History The university was founded in 1948, on the recommendation of the Asquith Commission through its sub-committee on the West Indies, chaired by Sir James Irvine. The Asquith Commission had been established in 1943 to review the provision of higher education in the British colonies. Initially in a special relationship with the University of London, the then University College of the West Indies (UCWI) was seated at Mona, about five miles from Kingston, Jamaica. The university was based at Gibraltar Camp, used by evacuated Gibraltarians during the war.Seeking to address a need for medical care, the first faculty established a medical school. The foundation stone for a hospital was added in 1949, and the University College Hospital of the West Indies opened in 1953. On 18 January 1953, Sir Winston Churchill visited the hospital and unveiled a plaque in recognition of the contribution made by the government of the United Kingdom to the hospital. The hospital was renamed the University Hospital of the West Indies in 1967 when the university gained full university status. In addition to patient care, the hospital facilitates research and teaching, along with the Medical Services department of the Mona campus of the University of the West Indies.The University College achieved independent university status in 1962. The St. Augustine Campus in Trinidad, formerly the Imperial College of Tropical Agriculture (ICTA), was established in 1960, followed by a school established along University Row, at the Deep Water Harbour of Barbados in 1963, later seated at the present Cave Hill Campus in 1967. The Open Campus, University Centres, headed by a Resident Tutor, were established in each of the other 13 contributing territories thereafter.In 1950, Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone, Queen Victoria's last surviving granddaughter, became the first Chancellor of the University College of the West Indies.Sir William Arthur Lewis was the first Vice-Chancellor under the UWI's independent Charter. A native of St Lucia, he served as the first West Indian Principal of the UCWI from 1958 to 1960 and as Vice-Chancellor from 1960 to 1963. He was succeeded by Sir Philip Sherlock (a Jamaican and one of UWI's founding fathers) who served as Vice-Chancellor from 1963 to 1969. Sir Roy Marshall, a Barbadian, was the next Vice-Chancellor, serving from 1969 to 1974. He was succeeded in that year by Aston Zachariah Preston, a Jamaican, who died in office on 24 June 1986. The fifth Vice-Chancellor was Sir Alister McIntyre, who served from 1988 to 1998, followed by alumnus and Professor Emeritus Rex Nettleford, who served from 1998 to 2004. The current Vice-Chancellor is Professor Sir Hilary Beckles, who succeeded Professor E. Nigel Harris in May 2015.The University of the West Indies Museum catalogs and exhibits some of the university's history. University of the West Indies system The UWI is the largest, longest-serving education provider in the Commonwealth Caribbean, with five constituent campuses: The following are the satellite campuses of the university system: Mount Hope Campus in Mount Hope, Trinidad and Tobago (houses the Faculty of Medical Sciences of UWI St. Augustine) St. Augustine South Campus at Debe in the Penal–Debe region, Trinidad and Tobago (extension campus of UWI St. Augustine) Western Jamaica Campus in Montego Bay, Jamaica (extension campus of UWI Mona) Centre for Hotel and Tourism Management in Nassau, Bahamas (extension campus of UWI Mona) School of Clinical Medicine and Research in Nassau, Bahamas (extension of the medical programme at UWI St. Augustine)The other contributing countries are served by the Open Campus. Proposed additions There have been various proposals to add one or more campuses in other nations, including a campus at Hope, Grenada. or even Suzhou, China. Articulation and franchised programmes In addition to programmes offered directly by one of the faculties of the university, the UWI extends accessibility to its programmes through articulation agreements and franchise arrangements with regional institutions. In many of these arrangements, students are able to study in their home countries for the first one or two years before going to a landed campus for the third (and fourth) year. In the case of articulation agreements, the local institution develops its own programme and the UWI agrees to recognise it as equivalent to the first year or two of a specific UWI programme. In the case of a franchise programme, the local institution delivers exactly the programme as offered by UWI. This is usually the first year or two, but can be the full bachelor's degree on occasion. Global initiatives The University of the West Indies has initiated several international partnerships. In 2016, UWI and the Global Institute for Software Technology (GIST) established the UWI-China Institute for Information Technology. Starting in the summer of 2018, students in the programme on the Cave Hill and Mona campuses will travel to Suzhou, China for two years to study software engineering and Mandarin.The UWI-SUNY Center for Leadership and Sustainable Development (CLSD) was established in 2017 on SUNY's Empire State campus in Manhattan. The centre is designed to assist the Commonwealth Caribbean in meeting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. In addition to research and advocacy, plans were underway as of 2019 to offer a joint master's degree in sustainability and leadership.In 2017, the University of Lagos (UNILAG) and the UWI established the UNILAG-UWI Institute of African and Diaspora Studies. The institute conducts research and offers a master's degree in African and Diaspora Studies.Also in 2017, UWI and the University of Johannesburg (UJ) signed a memorandum of agreement (MoA) to establish the Institute for Global Africa Affairs. The institute was launched in 2018 and will offer a joint master's degree in Global African Studies.In 2020, UWI and the University of Havana inked an agreement to jointly establish the Institute for the Sustainable Development of the Caribbean. UWI Mona will lead the initiative from the UWI side, with the deans of the Faculty of Science and Technology and the Dean of the Faculty of Medical Sciences taking the lead.In 2021 the Inter-American Development Bank decided to become a stakeholder of UWI under Cuban-American President Mauricio Claver-Carone as a public-private partnerships, [PPP). Faculties The University of the West Indies is a multi-campus, international university with several faculties and schools, some of which are replicated on all four physical main campuses. The Open Campus does not have a faculty structure. The distribution of the faculties (called schools at Five Islands) is listed below. A new Faculty of Culture, Creative and Performing Arts was approved to be established on 1 August 2020 at the Cave Hill Campus. Faculty of Medical Sciences Prior to the establishment of a medical school in the Caribbean, most doctors were trained in the United Kingdom, with a smaller group trained in the United States. This was costly, not attuned to the specific needs of the communities the doctors would serve, and risked the trained doctors remaining in their countries of training. The Faculty of Medical Sciences was the first faculty to be established in the then University College. This was because of the pressing need for more (locally trained) doctors to treat conditions such as tuberculosis, yaws, tetanus, typhoid, infant malnutrition and illnesses related to diarrhea. The establishment of medical schools in the colonies was replicated in the Gold Coast, Nigeria, Rhodesia and Uganda. The inaugural entering class in 1948 consisted of 33 students from across the Caribbean, selected from more than 600 or almost 800 applicants. As the university college was then affiliated with the University of London, the curriculum reflected University of London's curriculum, with the addition of preventative and tropical medicine. Degrees were awarded under the University of London name until 1962, reflective of the role the university played in administering the programme and providing the teaching staff. In addition to the standard five-year course, a pre-course science year was required for students without adequate preparation in that area. The University Hospital of the West Indies, an acute tertiary hospital, provided the initial context for clinical education. Expansion of the capacity of the Faculty followed several steps. In addition to population growth, the exodus of medical graduates to North America, never to return, exacerbated the need to increase the output of doctors. In the 1960s, it was possible to complete the clinical clerkship element of training in Trinidad and Tobago (at the Port of Spain General Hospital) and in Barbados (at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital), as well as in Jamaica. In 1989, the medical school at the St. Augustine campus opened. However, rather than adopt the 'traditional' existing curriculum at the Mona school, it adopted a problem-based approach. Mona, which had already carried out some curricular reform due to World Health Organization recommendations to place greater emphasis on community health promotion and protection, and St. Augustine, had different medical school curricula, though the graduates took the same qualifying exams. Moreover, St. Augustine's Faculty of Medical Sciences included not just a School of Medicine, but also Schools of Dentistry, Veterinarian Medicine, Nursing and Pharmacy, which necessitated some sharing of resources. In 2008, the clerkships in Barbados were fully developed into a medical school at the Cave Hill campus. Around the same time, the UWI School of Clinical Medicine and Research was established from an existing programme allowing clerkships to be undertaken in Nassau, under the direction of the St. Augustine campus. The School offers the final two years of the five-year programme. Specialist medical training Similar to the general training, specialist training was progressively made available through the UWI. For example, anaesthesia was initially provided by untrained doctors, nurses, and pharmacists, leading to high morbidity and mortality rates. Initially, doctors were sent overseas for a year of post-graduate training. While the Faculty was established in 1948, the one-year post-graduate diploma in anaesthetics did not begin until 1966 at the Mona Campus. St. Augustine and Cave Hill added the diploma in 1976. However, Mona was already moving towards a four-year Doctor of Medicine Anaesthetics degree, first offered in 1974. Eventually, this more specialised degree (extended to include intensive care) was extended to the other two campuses in 1984 while the one-year programme was discontinued in 1994.While improvements were being made to the training of physicians as anaesthesiologists, there continued to be a shortage of trained personnel in rural areas. In Jamaica, an initiative to train nurse anaesthetists started, with nurses first sent to the US and to Cuba, followed by the establishment of the Jamaica School of Nurse Anaesthetists in 1981, which continues to this day (2019) with the Ministry of Health. This is in addition to specialised additional training for nurses in intensive care which began in 1969. Dentist training Two of the three faculties of medical sciences offer dentistry. The St. Augustine campus was the first to offer a dental school. It opened in 1989, the first dental school in the anglophone Caribbean. The inaugural class of roughly 20 students was mostly from Trinidad and Tobago, with a couple of students each from Jamaica and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The initial curriculum was modeled on that found in the UK, with the intention to seek recognition from British authorities. It is possible to the exam for membership of the Faculty of Dental Surgery of the Edinburgh-based Royal College of Surgeons. Accreditation Starting in 2004, the medical programmes in the Caribbean ceased to be accredited by the United Kingdom-based General Medical Council, as the UK re-focussed more on integration with Europe. UWI was a key player in the establishment of the Caribbean Accreditation Authority for Education in Medicine and other Health Professions (CAAM-HP). The three UWI medical schools are accredited together, despite differences in curriculum, and are currently accredited with conditions. The dental school at St. Augustine is probationary accredited while the dental school at Mona has accreditation with conditions. The veterinarian medical school at St. Augustine is also accredited with conditions. Efforts are underway to align the curriculum and admission standards of the three medical schools. Regional competition Even with expansion, the UWI medical schools are facing new competition. Many for-profit medical schools have been established in the Caribbean region, with the first established in Grenada in 1976. Generally, these schools cater to students from the United States but they sometimes offer scholarships to local students, providing an alternative to UWI programmes or going abroad for medical education to Canada, the United Kingdom or the United States. The quality of these offshore medical schools differ, though some are accredited by the CAAM-HP. Research The Faculty of Medicines has a research arm called the Caribbean Institute for Health Research (CAIHR), formerly the Tropical Medicine Research Institute (TMRI). The CAIHR comprises the George Alleyne Chronic Disease Research Centre, based on the Cave Hill Campus, and three units all based on the Mona Campus: the Tropical Metabolism Research Unit, the Sickle Cell Unit and the Epidemiology Research Unit. Continuing medical education is provided in different ways among the various countries with the medical associations taking the lead in some countries and the medical schools in others. Faculty of Law Prior to the establishment of the Faculty of Law at the UWI, residents of the anglophone Caribbean would travel primarily to the United Kingdom to study. There, a prospective lawyer would join one of the Inns of Court, receiving lodging and training and undergoing examinations. The training focused on the legal system and social context of England, which did not correspond to legal practice in the Caribbean. It was also expensive. For the legal profession in England, the influx of prospective lawyers from around the British Commonwealth was beginning to strain resources. Efforts were underway to limit foreign students in legal studies in England, and this was another reason to establish legal training in the Caribbean. The Faculty of Law was initially established in 1970 at the Cave Hill Campus, in Barbados, but the first year of the degree was available at each campus (and the University of Guyana in Guyana). This structure served, inter alia, to create a regional institution (the Faculty) and a regional identity within the profession. Incrementally, courses from the second and third year of the law programmes were introduced at St. Augustine and Mona, allowing students to take more and more of the degree on those campuses, rather than having to study at Cave Hill. It is now possible to complete the law degree at each campus.Following completion of the UWI law degree, graduates who intend to practice must complete a two-year practical professional training programme at one of three law schools in the Caribbean. The Eugene Dupuch Law School in The Bahamas is normally for citizens of the Bahamas, the British Virgin Islands and the Turks and Caicos Islands. The Norman Manley Law School in Jamaica has allocated citizens from Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Belize, Jamaica, Montserrat, and St. Kitts and Nevis. The Hugh Wooding Law School in Trinidad and Tobago serves Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. The three schools were established by the Caribbean Council of Legal Education. Ironically, despite the Faculty of Law having been founded in Barbados, that country does not have a law school, though one has been suggested.The first law students, beginning studies in October 1970, consisted of 24 students in Jamaica, nineteen in Trinidad and Tobago, 35 in Barbados, and thirteen Guyana. Two years later, almost 300 students were enrolled in the Faculty. The first graduates entered the profession in 1975. Access to the Faculty of Law and to the Law Schools are controlled by the institutions. However, costs can vary depending on whether the applicant's country has paid contributory grants to the Faculty or the School. Not all countries did. Therefore, applicants from non-contributing countries would be considered after those from contributing countries and their fees would be higher. Faculty of Sport Launched in 2017, the UWI Faculty of Sport integrates teaching and research, professional development, community partnerships, and co- and extra-curricular student sport through three main units: Professional Programmes, Outreach & Projects Unit, Co-curricular & Intramural-Activity Unit and the Academic Programme & Activity Unit. The faculty is made up of four Academies of Sport: Cave Hill Academy of Sport, Open Campus Academy of Sport, Mona Academy of Sport and St Augustine Academy of Sport. UWI Press Founded in 1992, the University of the West Indies Press is a department within The University of the West Indies system located in Jamaica. Supported by a regionally assembled board or directors, UWI Press acts as the overall publishing arm of the main UWI campuses, and its faculty and student body of the Open Campus where it additionally serves the diverse network of 17 countries and territories. As an entity that caters to a readership around the world, UWI Press maintains a main commitment to traditional fields of: Caribbean history, social sciences, political science and cultural studies. Rankings The university was ranked 1,001–1,200th in the World University Rankings 2024 of the Times Higher Education, ranked 1,196 in the world by Edurank in 2023, and ranked #1,610 in the world by CWUR in 2019-20.In the 2021 Times Higher Education World University Rankings, UWI ranked in the 401-500th band. and in 2023, ranked in the top 150 best universities in the world for best research impact. The 2021-2022 Times Higher Education ranking ranked UWI in the top 20 when compared with Latin American University rankings, and ranked UWI first in the Caribbean. In 2020, UWI ranked among the top 100 Golden Age University Rankings and Impact Rankings. UWI is the only Caribbean university to make these prestigious lists. Chancellors of the University Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone, 1948–71 Sir Hugh Wooding, 1971–74 Sir Allen Montgomery Lewis 1974–89 Sir Shridath Ramphal 1989–2003 Sir George Alleyne 2003–2017 Robert Bermudez 2017– current Vice-Chancellors of the University Principals Sir Thomas Taylor 1947–52 Walter Wyatt Grave 1953–58 Sir William Arthur Lewis 1958–60Vice-Chancellors Sir William Arthur Lewis 1960–63 Sir Philip Sherlock 1963–69 Sir O Roy Marshall 1969–74 Hon Aston Zachariah Preston 1974–86 Pro-vice-chancellor L R B Robinson acting 1986–88 Sir Alister McIntyre 1988–1998 Rex Nettleford 1998–2004 Eon Nigel Harris 2004–2015 Hilary Beckles 2015– Notable faculty and administrators Helen Asemota: professor of biochemistry and biotechnology Courtenay Bartholomew: the first lecturer and then Professor of Medicine at UWI St Augustine. V. C. R. A. C. Crabbe: Professor of Legislative Drafting, formerly justice of the Supreme Court of Ghana, and first Electoral Commissioner of Ghana. Leith Dunn Head of the Mona Unit Albert K Fiadjoe: Distinguished emeritus professor of public law. Elsa Goveia: first female professor of UCWI and noted pioneer in West Indian historiography. Bridget Jones (1935–2000): pioneering Literature and language professor from 1964 to 1982, who developed curricula to include Afro-, Anglo- and Franco-Caribbean writers in university syllabai at UWI and in Britain and Ireland. Dorothy King: head of the Microbiology Department of the medical faculty from 1973 to 2001. Elsa Leo-Rhynie: Principal of the Mona campus. William Arthur Lewis: economist, lecturer, author and joint winner of Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics of 1979. Albert Belville Lockhart: Consultant and Ophthalmologist, Recipient of the Jamaican Order of Merit, co-inventor of Canasol. Evelyn O'Callaghan: Professor of West Indian literature, Dean of the Faculty of Humanities and Education. Orlando Patterson: John Cowles Professor of Sociology at Harvard University. George Maxwell Richards: Pro Vice Chancellor and Principal of the St. Augustine campus. Maureen Warner-Lewis: Professor Emerita of African-Caribbean Language and Orature; Gold Musgrave Medal winner in 2009. Manley Elisha West: Professor of Pharmacology, recipient of the Jamaican Order of Merit, co-inventor of Canasol. J. H. Parry :Gardiner Professor of Oceanic History and Affairs at Harvard University Raymond Gosling Richard D'Aeth: President of Hughes Hall, Cambridge University Michael B. Bracken Gordon Shirley pro vice chancellor and principal Mervyn C. Alleyne: Professor of Linguistics of the Mona and St. Augustine campi. Salikoko Mufwene: Lecturer of Linguistics of the Mona campus between 1980 and 1981. Notable alumni UWI graduates who are, or have been, heads of government: Irfaan Ali, president of Guyana Vance Amory, former premier of Nevis Kenny Anthony, former prime minister of St. Lucia Owen Arthur, former prime minister of Barbados Dean Barrow, former prime minister of Belize Heather Doram, activist and educator who designed Antigua and Barbuda's national costume Denzil Douglas, former prime minister of St. Kitts & Nevis Rufus Ewing, premier of the Turks and Caicos Islands Bruce Golding, former prime minister of Jamaica Ralph Gonsalves, prime minister of St. Vincent and the Grenadines David A. Granger, president of Guyana Timothy Harris, prime minister of St. Kitts & Nevis Andrew Holness, prime minister of Jamaica Patrick Manning, former prime minister of Trinidad and Tobago Hubert Minnis, prime minister of The Bahamas Keith Mitchell, prime minister of Grenada Joseph Walcott Parry, former premier of Nevis P. J. Patterson, former prime minister of Jamaica Kamla Persad-Bissessar, first female prime minister of Trinidad and Tobago Philip J. Pierre, prime minister of Saint Lucia Keith Rowley, current prime minister of Trinidad and Tobago Lloyd Erskine Sandiford, former prime minister of Barbados Kennedy A. Simmonds, former prime minister of St. Kitts & Nevis Orlando Smith, chief minister of the British Virgin Islands Freundel Stuart, former prime minister of Barbados Tillman Thomas, former prime minister of Grenada David Thompson, former prime minister of BarbadosGraduates in other fields: Dame Anita Allen, president of the Court of Appeal of The Bahamas Faris Al-Rawi, former Attorney General of Trinidad and Tobago Pamela Coke-Hamilton Director of International Trade for UNCTAD Merceline Dahl-Regis, Bahamian physician, former Chief Medical Officer of the Bahamas Edwidge Danticat, Haitian poet and writer Tracy Davidson-Celestine, former political leader of the Tobago Council of the People's National Movement and Trinidad and Tobago Ambassador to Costa Rica Kwame Dawes, Ghanaian poet and critic, and Professor of English at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln Erna Brodber, Jamaican writer, sociologist and social activist Kevin Fenton, President of the United Kingdom Faculty of Public Health Dennis Francis, Trinidad and Tobago diplomat Renatha Francis, Justice of the Supreme Court of Florida Karen E. Nelson, Jamaican-American microbiologist Merle Collins, Grenadian poet Mercedes Richards, Jamaican astrophysics and astronomy professor Fae Ellington, Jamaican media personality and lecturer Wendy Fitzwilliam, Miss Universe 1998 Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce, Olympic Gold Medallist Marcia Gilbert-Roberts, Jamaican bureaucrat and diplomat who served as Jamaican Ambassador to several European countries including Germany, Spain and France Burton P. C. Hall, judge of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia and former Chief Justice of The Bahamas Lisa Hanna, Jamaican Miss World 1993 Marlon James, Jamaican-born winner of the 2015 Man Booker Prize Jerelle Joseph, academic and scientist Giselle Laronde, Trinidadian Miss World 1986 Joan Latchman, Director of the University of the West Indies Seismic Research Centre Ianthea Leigertwood-Octave, former judge of the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court Garvin Medera, CEO of Caribbean Airlines Charles W. Mills, Jamaica philosopher Dolliver Nelson, member of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea Hansle Parchment, Olympic Gold Medallist Kris Rampersad, journalist, author, cultural advocate Shorna-Kay Richards, Jamaican diplomat Patrick Lipton Robinson, Jamaican judge of the International Court of Justice Walter Rodney, Guyanese historian and political activist Richard Sealy, Barbadian Tourism Minister Olive Senior, Jamaican novelist and writer Antoinette Tidjani Alou, lecturer in Comparative Literature at Abdou Moumouni University in Niger Shafimana Ueitele, Namibian lawyer M. NourbeSe Philip, Canadian poet Derek Walcott, recipient of the 1992 Nobel Prize for Literature Francis Belle Lawyer See also Agence Universitaire de la Francophonie Association of Commonwealth Universities University of the West Indies Museum University of Guyana University of Trinidad and Tobago University of Technology, Jamaica University of the Bahamas University of the French West Indies University of French Guiana Savacou, a sculpture on the Mona site University of the South Pacific, a similar university for Pacific Island states Historically black colleges and universities American University of Barbados References Notes ^α Serves the 16 campus funding countries. External links Official website A number of professional degrees in dentistry are offered by dental schools in various countries around the world. Degrees Dental degrees may include: Bachelor's degree Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) Bachelor's degree of Dentistry (BDS) Bachelor of Dentistry (BDent) Bachelor of Dental Science (BDSc) Bachelor of Science in Dentistry (BScD) Bachelor of Medicine in Dental Medicine (BM) Baccalaureus Dentalis Chirurgiae (BChD) Master's degree Master of Science (MS or MSc) Master of Science in Dentistry (MSD or MScD) Master of Medical Science (MMSc) Master of Dentistry (MDent) Master of Dental Surgery (MDS) Master of Dental Science (MDentSci) Master of Stomatology (MS) Master of Clinical Stomatology (MCS) Master of Stomatological Medicine (MSM) Doctorate Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS) Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) Doctor of Clinical Dentistry (DClinDent) Doctor of Dental Science (DDSc) Doctor of Science in Dentistry (DScD) Doctor of Medical Science (DMSc) Doctor of Dentistry (DDent) Doctor of Philosophy in Dentistry (PhD) Certificates and fellowships Certificates In some universities, especially in the United States, some postgraduate programs award certificates only. Diploma in Dentistry (SMF) Certificate, GPR/AEGD/Orofacial Pain Certificate, Anesthesiology/Oral & Maxillofacial Pathology/Endodontics/Prosthodontics/Periodontics/Orthodontics/Dental Public Health/Pediatric Dentistry/OMS (American Dental Association – recognized specialty programs) Certificate, DMTD Commonwealth post-nominals In commonwealth countries, the Royal Colleges of Dentistry (or Faculty of Dentistry of the college) awards post-nominals upon completion of a series of examinations. Fellow of the Medical College in Dental Surgery (FMCDS), the National Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria (NPMCN) Fellow of the West African College of Surgeons (FWACS), the West African College of Surgeons Fellow of Dental Surgery of the Royal College of Surgeons (FDSRCS) Membership in the Faculty of Dental Surgery of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow [MFDS RCPS (Glasg)] Membership in the Faculty of Dental Surgery of the Royal College Surgeons (MFDS RCS) Fellow of Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons (FRACDS) Membership in the Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons (MRACDS) Membership in Orthodontics, Royal College of Surgeons (MOrth RCS) Fellow of the Royal College of Dentists of Canada (FRCD(C)) Member of Royal College of Dentists of Canada (MRCD(C)) Fellow of the College of Dental Surgeons of Hong Kong (FCDSHK) Member of the College of Dental Surgeons of Hong Kong (MCDSHK) Fellow College of Physician and Surgeons, Bangladesh (FCPS) Fellow College of Physician and Surgeons, Pakistan (FCPS) License of Dental Surgery, Royal College of Surgeons (L.D.S. (Eng.)) Fellowship in Sports Dentistry /Fellow Sports Dentistry (FSD)In the U.S., most dental specialists attain Board Certification (Diplomate Status) by completing a series of written and oral examinations with the appropriate Boards. e.g. Diplomate, American Board of Periodontics. Each fully qualifies the holder to practice dentistry in at least the jurisdiction in which the degree was presented, assuming local and federal government licensure requirements are met. Oceania Australia Australia has nine dental schools: University of Sydney NSW Charles Sturt University, NSW* Griffith University, QLD* University of Queensland, QLD James Cook University, QLD* University of Adelaide, SA La Trobe University, VIC* University of Melbourne, VIC University of Western Australia, WA(*) indicates new university dental programs that have opened up to aim at increasing the number of rural dental students entering and to return to rural practice. Traditional sandstone universities have been Sydney, Melbourne, Queensland, Adelaide and Western Australia. Sydney (as of 2001), Melbourne (as of 2010) and Western Australia (as of 2013) have switched to 4-year graduate program that require a previous bachelor's degree for admission. Postgraduate training is available in all dental specialties. Degrees awarded used to be Master of Dental Surgery/Science (MDS/MDSc), but lately have changed to Doctorate in Clinical Dentistry (DClinDent). New Zealand New Zealand has only one dental school: University of Otago, DunedinThe Faculty of Dentistry awards Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) and Master of Community Dentistry (MComDent) for public health & community dentistry, and Doctorate in Clinical Dentistry (DClinDent) for the other dental specialties. The body responsible for registering dental practitioners is the Dental Council of New Zealand (DCNZ). Trans Tasman mutual recognition Both Australia and New Zealand recognize the educational and professional qualifications and grant professional licenses via reciprocity identical to the United States and Canada. General Dental Council of the UK The United Kingdom General Dental Council had been recognizing the Australian and New Zealand dental qualification as registrable degree until 2000. Graduates who have applied for dental license registration in the United Kingdom now have to sit the Overseas Registration Exam (ORE), a three-part examination. Canadian registration Australia and Canada have a reciprocal accreditation agreement, which allows graduates of Canadian or Australian dental schools to register in either country. However, this only applies to the graduates of 2011 class and does not apply to the previous years' graduates. Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons (RACDS) is a postgraduate body that focuses on postgraduate training of general practitioners and specialist dentists. Additional postgraduate qualifications can be obtained through the college after the candidate has completed the Primary Examination (basic science examination in anatomy, histology, physiology, biochemistry, pathology and microbiology) and the Final Examination (clinical subjects in dentistry). After the successful completion of the examinations and meeting the college requirements, the candidate is awarded the title of Fellow of Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons (FRACDS). For the dental specialists, the exam pathway is similar (Primary Examinations) and then clinical/oral examinations just prior to completing the specialist training leads to the award of the title Member of Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons in Special Field Stream (MRACDS (SFS)). For the busy GP dentists, MRACDS in general stream is also available. Bangladesh The graduation in Dentistry is named here as Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) also have diploma in Dentistry. At present there are three universities that have medical faculty that offer dental degrees: The University of Dhaka, the University of Chittagong, the University of Rajshahi, and diplomas also by the state medical faculty. These public universities have dental colleges and hospitals that may be publicly or privately funded, that offer education for the degree. The list of dentals school providing graduate/diploma education in dentistry includes: List of Bangladeshi dental colleges Colleges affiliated to University of Dhaka: Dhaka Dental College, Dhaka Shaheed Suhrawardy Medical College Dental Unit, Dhaka. Sir Salimullah Medical College Dental Unit, Dhaka. Mymensingh Medical College Dental Unit, Mymensingh. MAG Osmani Medical College Dental Unit, Sylhet. Sher e Bangla Medical College Dental Unit, Barisal. Pioneer Dental College & Hospital Bangladesh Dental College City Dental College University Dental College Sapporo Dental College Holy Family Red Cresect Medical College Dental Unit, Dhaka. Update Dental College & Hospital Marks Dental College Saphena Women's Dental College Mandy Dental CollegeColleges affiliated to University of Chittagong: Chittagong Medical College Dental Unit. Chittagong International Dental CollegeColleges affiliated to University of Rajshahi: Rajshahi Medical College Dental Unit Rangpur Medical College Dental Unit Rangpur Dental College Udayan Dental College (Islami bank medical college)Dental Unit Postgraduate dentistry in Bangladesh At present, postgraduate degrees in specialized dentistry exist in main four clinical specialities: Orthodontics and Dentofacial Orthopedics Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Conservative Dentistry and Endodontics ProsthodonticsThe FCPS degree, which requires four years of residency training, is awarded by Bangladesh College of Physician and Surgeons. It considered the most prestigious specialized degree in dentistry at present. Also, MS degrees in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Prosthodontics, Conservative Dentistry and Endodontics and Orthodontics are awarded by the University of Dhaka. Very recently, MS degrees in paediatric dentistry also were started in Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University (BSMMU), the first batch of whom started in 2016. List of Bangladeshi diploma dental colleges Institute of health technology-Dhaka Institute of health technology-Chittagong Institute of health technology-Rajshahi Institute of health technology- Rangpur Institute of health technology-Sylhet Institute of health technology-Jhinaidha Institute of health technology- Borisal Institute of health technology- bogura Marks institute of medical technology-Dhaka Canada There are ten approved dental schools in Canada: University of Toronto (1868) [D.D.S.] McGill University (1905) [D.M.D.] Université de Montréal (1905) [D.M.D] Dalhousie University (1908) [D.D.S.] University of Alberta (1923) [D.D.S.] University of Manitoba (1958) [D.M.D.] University of British Columbia (1964) [D.M.D.] University of Western Ontario (1966) [D.D.S.] University of Saskatchewan (1968) [D.M.D.] Université Laval (1971) [D.M.D. ]Several universities in Canada offer the DDS degree, including the University of Toronto, the University of Western Ontario, the University of Alberta, and Dalhousie University, while the remaining Canadian dental schools offer the Doctor of Dental Medicine degree to their graduates. Additional qualifications can be obtained through the Royal College of Dentists of Canada (RCDC), which administers examinations for qualified dental specialists as part of the dentistry profession in Canada. The current examinations are known as the National Dental Specialty Examination (NDSE). Successful completion may lead to Fellowship in the college (FRCD(C)) and may be used for provincial registration purposes. Canada has a reciprocal accreditation agreement with Australia, Ireland, and the United States, which recognize the dental training of graduates of Canadian dental schools. Obtaining licensure to work in any of the three other countries often requires additional steps, such as successfully completing national board examinations and fulfilling requirements of local governing bodies. China China has many universities teaching dental degrees both at undergraduate and postgraduate level. Chinese universities have adapted the programmes of American and European degrees. The undergraduate degree is Bachelor of Medicine with a major in stomatology or dental surgery, and the postgraduate degree is Master of Medicine in stomatology (口腔医学硕士). Recently, China has a new name for its master's degree as Master of Stomatological Medicine (MSM). The MSM has been offered by top class Chinese universities. This program includes a comprehensive syllabus to produce graduates with extensive knowledge in respective specialties, skills in clinical practice, and research potential. The other branches of dentistry remain the same as American universities. Finland In Finland, education in dentistry is through a 5.5-year Licenciate of Dental Medicine (DMD or DDS) course, which is offered after high school graduation. Application is by a national combined dental and medical school entry examination. As of 2011, dentistry is provided by Faculties of Medicine in four universities: University of Helsinki University of Turku University of Oulu University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio CampusThe first phase of training begins with a unified two-year preclinical training for dentists and physicians. Problem-based learning (PBL) is employed depending on university. The third year-autumn consists of clinico, theoretical phase in pathology, genetics, radiology and public health, and is partially combined with physicians' second phase. Third-phase clinical training lasts for the remaining three years and includes periods of being on call at University Central Hospital Trauma Centre, Clinic of Oral and Maxillofacial Diseases, and the Children's clinic. Candidates who successfully complete the fourth year of training qualify for a paid summer rotation in a Community health center of their choice. Annual intake of dentists into Faculties of Medicine is a national total 160 students. Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) research is strongly encouraged alongside postgraduate training, which is available in all four universities and lasts an additional 3–6 years. Starting in 2014, the University of Helsinki introduced a new doctoral training system. In this new system, all doctoral candidates belong to a doctoral programme within a doctoral school. FINDOS Helsinki – Doctoral Programme in Oral Sciences – is a programme in the Doctoral School in Health Sciences.The 11 postgraduate programs are: Clinical dentistry: Periodontology Pedodontology and Preventive Dentistry Cariology and Endodontology Prosthodontology and Stomatognathic Physiology Diagnostic dentistry: Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology Oral and Maxillofacial Medicine Oral Clinical Microbiology (starts in 2014) Other: Orthodontics Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Oral Public Health India In India, training in dentistry is through a five-year Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) course, which includes four years of study followed by one year of internship. As of 2019, 310 colleges (40 run by the government and 292 in the private sector) were offering dental education. This amounts to an annual intake of 33500 graduates.The three-year, full-time postgraduate Master of Dental Surgery (MDS) is the highest degree in dentistry awarded in India, and its holders are bestowed as consultants in one of these specialties: Prosthodontics (fixed, removable, maxillofacial, and implant prosthodontics) Periodontics Oral and maxillofacial surgery Conservative dentistry and endodontics Orthodontics and dentofacial orthopaedics Oral pathology and microbiology Community dentistry Pedodontics and preventive dentistry Oral medicine diagnosis and radiology Master in Public Health Dentistry Israel Israel has two dental schools, the Hebrew University-Hadassah School of Dental Medicine in Jerusalem, founded by the Alpha Omega Fraternity and the Tel Aviv University School of Dental Medicine in Tel Aviv. The two schools have six-year program and grant the Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) degrees. In recent decades, students are eligible for the Bachelor of Medical Sciences (BMedSc) degree after the first three years of training. South Africa Related: Medical education in South Africa.Training in South Africa generally comprises the five-year Bachelor of Dental Surgery, followed by one year's compulsory medical service/internship. The country has five universities with dental faculties: Until 2003, Stellenbosch University offered the BChD degree. In 2004, the dental faculties of the University of the Western Cape and Stellenbosch University merged and moved to the University of the Western Cape, which is currently the largest dental school in Africa. Specialisation is through one of the universities as a Master of Dentistry, or through the College of Dentistry within the Colleges of Medicine of South Africa, with certifications offered in oral medicine and periodontics, orthodontics, and prosthodontics. Research degrees are the MSc(Dent) / MDS and PhD(Dent). United Kingdom and Ireland Many universities award BDS degrees, including the University of Sheffield, the University of Bristol, Barts and the London School of Medicine and Dentistry, the University of Birmingham, the University of Liverpool, the University of Manchester, the University of Glasgow, the University of Dundee, the University of Aberdeen, King's College London, the University of Cardiff, Newcastle University, Queen's University Belfast, the University of Central Lancashire, and Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry. In the Republic of Ireland, the University College Cork awards BDS degrees and Trinity College Dublin awards BDentSc degrees. The University of Leeds awards BChD and MChD (Bachelor/Master of Dental Surgery) degrees.The Royal College of Surgeons of England, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Ireland award LDS (Licence/Licentiate in Dental Surgery) degrees. Nigeria Many universities award BDS and a few BChD (Baccalaureus Chirurgiae Dental) degrees. In Nigeria, training in dentistry is through a six-year course, typically, three years of preclinical training followed by three years of clinical training after passing part I exams comprising anatomy, biochemistry, and physiology. This is followed by one year of internship or housemanship, after which graduates can go into clinical practice as general dentists. Some go on to specialty training by completing a residency program, to become hospital consultants. As of 2022, 11 dental schools, were active, including two with partial accreditations. Fully accredited programs are at the University of Lagos, University of Ibadan, University of Benin, University of Port-Harcourt, University of Nigeria (Enugu), University of Maiduguri, Bayero University (Kano), Lagos State University, and Obafemi Awolowo University (Ile-Ife). United States In the United States, at least three years of undergraduate education are required to be admitted to a dental school; however, most dental schools require at least a bachelor's degree. No particular course of study is required as an undergraduate other than completing the requisite predental courses, which generally includes one year of general biology, chemistry, organic chemistry, physics, English, and higher-level mathematics such as statistics and calculus. Some dental schools have requirements that go beyond the basic requirements such as psychology, sociology, biochemistry, anatomy, physiology, etc. The majority of predental students major in a science, but this is not required as some students elect to major in a nonscience-related field. In addition to core prerequisites, the Dental Admission Test, a multiple-choice standardized examination, is also required for potential dental students. The DAT is usually taken during the spring semester of one's junior year. The vast majority of dental schools require an interview before admissions can be granted. The interview is designed to evaluate the motivation, character, and personality of the applicant.For the 2009–2010 application cycle, 11,632 applicants applied for admission to dental schools in the United States. Just 4,067 were eventually accepted. The average dental school applicant entering the school year in 2009 had an overall GPA of 3.54 and a science GPA of 3.46. Additionally, their mean DAT Academic Average (AA) was 19.00, while their DAT Perceptual Ability Test (PAT) score was 19.40. Dental education and training Dental school is four academic years in duration and is similar in format to medical school: two years of basic medical and dental sciences, followed by two years of clinical training (with continued didactic coursework). Before graduating, every dental student must successfully complete the National Board Dental Examination Part I and II (commonly referred to as NBDE I & II). The NBDE Part I is usually taken at the end of the second year after the majority of the didactic courses have been completed. The NBDE Part I covers gross anatomy, biochemistry, physiology, microbiology, pathology, and dental anatomy and occlusion. The NBDE Part II is usually taken during winter of the last year of dental school and consists of operative dentistry, pharmacology, endodontics, periodontics, oral surgery, pain control, prosthodontics, orthodontics, pedodontics, oral pathology, and radiology. NBDE Part I scores are Pass/Fail since 2012. After graduating, the vast majority of new dentists go directly into practice, while others enter a residency program. Some residency programs train dentists in advanced general dentistry such as General Practice Residencies and Advanced Education in General Dentistry Residencies, commonly referred to as GPR and AEGD. Most GPR and AEGD programs are one year in duration, but several are two years long or provide an optional second year. GPR programs are usually affiliated with a hospital and thus require the dentist to treat a wide variety of patients including trauma, critically ill, and medically compromised patients. Additionally, GPR programs require residents to rotate through various departments within the hospital, such as anesthesia, internal medicine, and emergency medicine, to name a few. AEGD programs are usually in a dental-school setting where the focus is treating complex cases in a comprehensive manner. DDS vs DMD degree In the United States, the Doctor of Dental Surgery and Doctor of Dental Medicine are terminal professional doctorates, which qualify a professional for licensure. The DDS and DMD degrees are considered equivalent. The American Dental Association specifies: The DDS (Doctor of Dental Surgery) and DMD (Doctor of Dental Medicine) are the same degrees. They are awarded upon graduation from dental school to become a General Dentist. The majority of dental schools award the DDS degree; however, some award a DMD degree. The education and degrees are, in substance, the same.Harvard University was the first dental school to award the DMD degree. Harvard only grants degrees in Latin, and the Latin translation of Doctor of Dental Surgery, Chirurgiae Dentium Doctoris, did not share the DDS initials of the English term. The degree 'Scientiae Dentium Doctoris', which would leave the initials of DDS unchanged, was then considered, but was rejected on the ground that dentistry was not a science. (The word order in Latin is not fixed, only the inflections; Scientiae Dentium Doctoris = Doctoris Dentium Scientiae.) A Latin scholar was consulted. It was finally decided that Medicinae Doctoris be modified with Dentariae. This is how the DMD, or Doctor Medicinae Dentariae degree, was started. (The genitive inflection -is on Doctoris instead of the nominative Doctor simply reflects that the syntax on the diploma was the degree of Doctor of Dental Medicine; they are both correct.) The assertion that dentistry was not a science reflected the view that dental surgery was an art informed by science, not a science per se—notwithstanding that the scientific component of dentistry is today recognized in the Doctor of Dental Science (DDSc) degree. Other dental schools made the switch to this notation, and in 1989, 23 of the 66 North American dental schools awarded the DMD. No meaningful difference exists between the DMD and DDS degrees, and all dentists must meet the same national and regional certification standards to practice.Some other prominent dental schools that award the DMD degree are the University of Florida, Midwestern University-IL, Midwestern University-AZ, Medical University of South Carolina, Augusta University (formerly Medical College of Georgia), University of Connecticut, University of Alabama at Birmingham, University of Louisville, University of Puerto Rico, Rutgers University, Tufts University, Oregon Health and Sciences University, University of Pennsylvania, Case Western Reserve University, University of Illinois at Chicago, Boston University, Temple University, Western University of Health Sciences, University of Pittsburgh, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, and East Carolina University. The United States Department of Education and the National Science Foundation do not include the DDS and DMD among the degrees that are equivalent to research doctorates. Licensing examinations To practice, a dentist must pass a licensing examination administered by an individual state or more commonly a region. A handful of states maintain independent dental licensing examinations, while the majority accept a regional board examination. The Northeast Regional Board (NERB), Western Regional Board (WREB), Central Regional Dental Testing Service (CRDTS), and Southern Regional Testing Agency (SRTA), Council of Interstate Testing Agencies (CITA) are the five regional testing agencies that administer licensing examinations. Once the examination is passed, the dentist may then apply to individual states that accept the regional board test passed. Each state requires prospective practitioners to pass an ethics/jurisprudence examination, as well, before a license is granted. To maintain one's dental license, the doctor must complete Continuing Dental Education (CDE) courses periodically (usually annually). This promotes the continued exploration of knowledge. The amount of CE required varies from state to state, but is generally 10-25 CE hours a year. The completion of a dental degree can be followed by either an entrance into private practice, further postgraduate study and training, or research and academics. Dental specialties in the United States Twelve dental specialties are recognized in the United States. Becoming a specialist requires one to train in a residency or advanced graduate training program. Once residency is completed, the doctor is granted a certificate of specialty training. Many specialty programs have optional or required advanced degrees such as a master's degree: (MS, MSc, MDS, MSD, MDSc, MMSc, MPhil, or MDent), doctoral degree: (DClinDent, DChDent, DMSc, PhD), or medical degree: (MD/MBBS specific to maxillofacial surgery). Anesthesiology: 3–4 years Orthodontics: 2–3 years Endodontics: 2–3 years Oral and maxillofacial surgery: 4–6 years (additional time for MD/MBBS degree granting programs) Periodontics: 3 years Prosthodontics: 2–3 yearsMaxillofacial prosthodontics 1 year (a prosthodontist may elect to sub-specialize in maxillofacial prosthodontics) Oral and maxillofacial radiology: 3 years Oral and maxillofacial pathology: 3–5 years Oral medicine: 2–4 years Orofacial pain: 1–3 years Pediatric dentistry: 2–3 years Dental public health: 3 yearsThe following are currently recognized as dental specialties in the US under the American Board of Dental Specialties (ABDS): Oral medicine: 2–4 years Orofacial pain: 1–3 years Oral Implantology/Implant Dentistry: seven or more years of experience in the practice of implant dentistry and have completed at least 75 implant cases. Applicants must successfully complete both the Part I and Part II examination within four year Dental Board of Anesthesiology: 3–4 yearsThe following are not currently recognized as dental specialties in the US. Special needs dentistry: 3 years Geriatric Dentistry: ranges from a weekend course to a 2-year masters course depending on the certificate issuing agency. Cosmetic Dentistry – ranges from a weekend course to a 1-year course depending on the certificate issuing agency.Dentists who have completed accredited specialty training programs in these fields are designated registrable (U.S. Board Eligible) and warrant exclusive titles such as anesthesiologist, orthodontist, oral and maxillofacial surgeon, endodontist, pedodontist, periodontist, or prosthodontist upon satisfying certain local (U.S. Board Certified), (Australia/NZ: FRACDS), or (Canada: FRCD(C)) registry requirements. See also American Student Dental Association List of dental schools in the United States References External links General Dental Council: UK primary dental qualifications American Student Dental Association – Licensure by State B. J. Medical College (BJMC) is a public medical college located in Pune, Maharashtra, India. The college, administered by the Government of Maharashtra, comprises clinical and para/pre-clinical departments working alongside the Sassoon General Hospital. Founded by Byramjee Jeejeebhoy in 1878. History The B.J. Medical School was started in 1878 and was converted to full-fledged B.J. Medical College in 1946. In 1924, Mahatma Gandhi was operated for acute appendicitis in this college. Location B.J. Medical College and the allied Sassoon General Hospitals are near Pune Railway Station, in a busy area of the city. B.J. Medical College is a Two-minute walk from Pune central railway station. Hospital facilities The hospital serves the needs of patients from urban and rural Pune. It is also a major referral centre for many of the surrounding districts. The hospital has facilities in medical specialities including a cardiac catheterization laboratory, CT imaging, upper gastrointestinal tract endoscopy, etc. Weekly clinics are run for medical and surgical superspecialties. Courses and admissions Undergraduate Every year, the college admits 250 students to the undergraduate (MBBS) course via NEET.15% AIQ quota is there for All India students and 85% is the state quota. Earlier the method of selection was a combination of entrance examinations held at the state and national levels. The duration of training is four and a half years years followed by compulsory internship for 1 year in urban and rural settings. Post graduate B.J. Medical College, Pune offers training in pre-clinical, para-clinical, and clinical disciplines. Previously granting degrees under the University of Pune, the institute is now affiliated to the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), Nasik. The duration of training is three years for degree (MD or MS) courses and two years for diploma courses. For undergraduate courses, the method of selection is by competitive entrance examinations held at the state and national levels. In addition, some seats are reserved for medical officers who have completed a pre-specified number of years of service in the rural areas of the state of Maharashtra. Superspeciality The superspeciality training course offered is MCh in Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery (CVTS), plastic surgery, neurosurgery. Certificate Course in Modern Pharmacology (CCMP) It is a one-year course conducted at the college for practising Homoeopathic General Practitioners(GP's) who wish to practice Allopathy and tide over the shortage of doctors in the State of Maharashtra. Certificate Course in “Modern Pharmacology” For Registered Homoeopathic Practitioners in The State of Maharashtra, Sanctioned by Academic Council of Maharashtra University of Health Science,(MUHS), Nasik. Notable alumni Notable alumni include: Shreeram Lagoo Mohan Agashe Jabbar Patel Shirish Hiremath Sharad Moreshwar Hardikar Himmatrao Bawaskar YS Chandrashekhar KB Grant References External links Official website Homeopathy or homoeopathy is a pseudoscientific system of alternative medicine. It was conceived in 1796 by the German physician Samuel Hahnemann. Its practitioners, called homeopaths or homeopathic physicians, believe that a substance that causes symptoms of a disease in healthy people can cure similar symptoms in sick people; this doctrine is called similia similibus curentur, or like cures like. Homeopathic preparations are termed remedies and are made using homeopathic dilution. In this process, the selected substance is repeatedly diluted until the final product is chemically indistinguishable from the diluent. Often not even a single molecule of the original substance can be expected to remain in the product. Between each dilution homeopaths may hit and/or shake the product, claiming this makes the diluent remember the original substance after its removal. Practitioners claim that such preparations, upon oral intake, can treat or cure disease.All relevant scientific knowledge about physics, chemistry, biochemistry and biology contradicts homeopathy. Homeopathic remedies are typically biochemically inert, and have no effect on any known disease. Its theory of disease, centered around principles Hahnemann termed miasms, is inconsistent with subsequent identification of viruses and bacteria as causes of disease. Clinical trials have been conducted and generally demonstrated no objective effect from homeopathic preparations. : 206 The fundamental implausibility of homeopathy as well as a lack of demonstrable effectiveness has led to it being characterized within the scientific and medical communities as quackery and fraud.Homeopathy achieved its greatest popularity in the 19th century. It was introduced to the United States in 1825, and the first American homeopathic school opened in 1835. Throughout the 19th century, dozens of homeopathic institutions appeared in Europe and the United States. During this period, homeopathy was able to appear relatively successful, as other forms of treatment could be harmful and ineffective. By the end of the century the practice began to wane, with the last exclusively homeopathic medical school in the United States closing in 1920. During the 1970s, homeopathy made a significant comeback, with sales of some homeopathic products increasing tenfold. The trend corresponded with the rise of the New Age movement, and may be in part due to chemophobia, an irrational aversion to synthetic chemicals, and the longer consultation times homeopathic practitioners provided. In the 21st century, a series of meta-analyses have shown that the therapeutic claims of homeopathy lack scientific justification. As a result, national and international bodies have recommended the withdrawal of government funding for homeopathy in healthcare. National bodies from Australia, the United Kingdom, Switzerland and France, as well as the European Academies' Science Advisory Council and the Russian Academy of Sciences have all concluded that homeopathy is ineffective, and recommended against the practice receiving any further funding. The National Health Service in England no longer provides funding for homeopathic remedies and asked the Department of Health to add homeopathic remedies to the list of forbidden prescription items. France removed funding in 2021, while Spain has also announced moves to ban homeopathy and other pseudotherapies from health centers. History Homeopathy was created in 1796 by Samuel Hahnemann. Hahnemann rejected the mainstream medicine of the late 18th century as irrational and inadvisable because it was largely ineffective and often harmful. He advocated the use of single drugs at lower doses and promoted an immaterial, vitalistic view of how living organisms function. The term homeopathy was coined by Hahnemann and first appeared in print in 1807. He also coined the expression allopathic medicine, which was used to pejoratively refer to traditional Western medicine. Concept Hahnemann conceived of homeopathy while translating a medical treatise by the Scottish physician and chemist William Cullen into German. Being sceptical of Cullen's theory that cinchona cured malaria because it was bitter, Hahnemann ingested some bark specifically to investigate what would happen. He experienced fever, shivering and joint pain: symptoms similar to those of malaria itself. From this, Hahnemann came to believe that all effective drugs produce symptoms in healthy individuals similar to those of the diseases that they treat. This led to the name homeopathy, which comes from the Greek: ὅμοιος hómoios, -like and πάθος páthos, suffering.The doctrine that those drugs are effective which produce symptoms similar to the symptoms caused by the diseases they treat, called the law of similars, was expressed by Hahnemann with the Latin phrase similia similibus curentur, or like cures like. Hahnemann's law of similars is unproven and does not derive from the scientific method. An account of the effects of eating cinchona bark noted by Oliver Wendell Holmes, published in 1861, failed to reproduce the symptoms Hahnemann reported. : 128 Subsequent scientific work showed that cinchona cures malaria because it contains quinine, which kills the Plasmodium falciparum parasite that causes the disease; the mechanism of action is unrelated to Hahnemann's ideas. Provings Hahnemann began to test what effects various substances may produce in humans, a procedure later called homeopathic proving. These tests required subjects to test the effects of ingesting substances by recording all their symptoms as well as the ancillary conditions under which they appeared. He published a collection of provings in 1805, and a second collection of 65 preparations appeared in his book, Materia Medica Pura (1810).As Hahnemann believed that large doses of drugs that caused similar symptoms would only aggravate illness, he advocated for extreme dilutions. A technique was devised for making dilutions that Hahnemann claimed would preserve the substance's therapeutic properties while removing its harmful effects. Hahnemann believed that this process enhanced the spirit-like medicinal powers of the crude substances. He gathered and published an overview of his new medical system in his book, The Organon of the Healing Art (1810), with a sixth edition published in 1921 that homeopaths still use today. Miasms and disease In the Organon, Hahnemann introduced the concept of miasms as the infectious principles underlying chronic disease and as peculiar morbid derangement[s] of vital force. Hahnemann associated each miasm with specific diseases, and thought that initial exposure to miasms causes local symptoms, such as skin or venereal diseases. His assertion was that if these symptoms were suppressed by medication, the cause went deeper and began to manifest itself as diseases of the internal organs. Homeopathy maintains that treating diseases by directly alleviating their symptoms, as is sometimes done in conventional medicine, is ineffective because all disease can generally be traced to some latent, deep-seated, underlying chronic, or inherited tendency. The underlying imputed miasm still remains, and deep-seated ailments can be corrected only by removing the deeper disturbance of the vital force.Hahnemann's hypotheses for miasms originally presented only three local symptoms: psora (the itch), syphilis (venereal disease) or sycosis (fig-wart disease). Of these the most important was psora, described as being related to any itching diseases of the skin and was claimed to be the foundation of many further disease conditions. Hahnemann believed it to be the cause of such diseases as epilepsy, cancer, jaundice, deafness, and cataracts. Since Hahnemann's time, other miasms have been proposed, some replacing illnesses previously attributed to the psora, including tuberculosis and cancer miasms.Hahnemann's miasm theory remains disputed and controversial within homeopathy even in modern times. The theory of miasms has been criticized as an explanation developed to preserve the system of homeopathy in the face of treatment failures, and for being inadequate to cover the many hundreds of sorts of diseases, as well as for failing to explain disease predispositions, as well as genetics, environmental factors, and the unique disease history of each patient. : 148–9 19th century: rise to popularity and early criticism Homeopathy achieved its greatest popularity in the 19th century. It was introduced to the United States in 1825 by Hans Birch Gram, a student of Hahnemann. The first homeopathic school in the United States opened in 1835 and the American Institute of Homeopathy was established in 1844. Throughout the 19th century, dozens of homeopathic institutions appeared in Europe and the United States, and by 1900, there were 22 homeopathic colleges and 15,000 practitioners in the United States.Because medical practice of the time relied on treatments which were often ineffective and harmful, patients of homeopaths often had better outcomes than those being treated by medical practitioners. Though ineffective, homeopathic preparations are rarely detrimental, thus users are less likely to be harmed by the treatment that is supposed to be helping them. The relative success of homeopathy in the 19th century may have led to the abandonment of the ineffective and harmful treatments of bloodletting and purging and begun the move towards more effective, science-based medicine. One reason for the growing popularity of homeopathy was its apparent success in treating people suffering from infectious disease epidemics. During 19th-century epidemics of diseases such as cholera, death rates in homeopathic hospitals were often lower than in conventional hospitals, where the treatments used at the time were often harmful and did little or nothing to combat the diseases.Even during its rise in popularity, homeopathy was criticized by scientists and physicians. Sir John Forbes, physician to Queen Victoria, said in 1843 that the extremely small doses of homeopathy were regularly derided as useless and considered it an outrage to human reason. James Young Simpson said in 1853 of the highly diluted drugs: No poison, however strong or powerful, the billionth or decillionth of which would in the least degree affect a man or harm a fly. Nineteenth-century American physician and author Oliver Wendell Holmes was also a vocal critic of homeopathy and published an essay entitled Homœopathy and Its Kindred Delusions (1842). The members of the French Homeopathic Society observed in 1867 that some leading homeopaths of Europe not only were abandoning the practice of administering infinitesimal doses but were also no longer defending it. The last school in the United States exclusively teaching homeopathy closed in 1920. Revival in the 20th century According to academics Paul U. Unschuld and Edzard Ernst, the Nazi regime in Germany was fond of homeopathy, and spent large sums of money on researching its mechanisms, but without gaining a positive result. Unschuld also states that homeopathy never subsequently took root in the United States, but remained more deeply established in European thinking. In the United States, the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938 (sponsored by Royal Copeland, a Senator from New York and homeopathic physician) recognized homeopathic preparations as drugs. In the 1950s, there were only 75 solely homeopathic practitioners in the U.S. By the mid to late 1970s, homeopathy made a significant comeback and the sales of some homeopathic companies increased tenfold.Some homeopaths credit the revival to Greek homeopath George Vithoulkas, who conducted a great deal of research to update the scenarios and refine the theories and practice of homeopathy in the 1970s, but Ernst and Simon Singh consider it to be linked to the rise of the New Age movement. Bruce Hood has argued that the increased popularity of homeopathy in recent times may be due to the comparatively long consultations practitioners are willing to give their patients, and to a preference for natural products, which people think are the basis of homeopathic preparations.Towards the end of the century opposition to homeopathy began to increase again; with William T. Jarvis, the President of the National Council Against Health Fraud, saying that Homeopathy is a fraud perpetrated on the public with the government's blessing, thanks to the abuse of political power of Sen. Royal S. Copeland. 21st century: renewed criticism Since the beginning of the 21st century, a series of meta-analyses have further shown that the therapeutic claims of homeopathy lack scientific justification. This had led to a decrease or suspension of funding by many governments. In a 2010 report, the Science and Technology Committee of the United Kingdom House of Commons recommended that homeopathy should no longer receive National Health Service (NHS) funding due its lack of scientific credibility; NHS funding for homeopathy ceased in 2017. They also asked the Department of Health in the UK to add homeopathic remedies to the list of forbidden prescription items.In 2015, the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia found that there are no health conditions for which there is reliable evidence that homeopathy is effective. The federal government only ended up accepting three of the 45 recommendations made by the 2018 review of Pharmacy Remuneration and Regulation. The same year the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) held a hearing requesting public comment on the regulation of homeopathic drugs. In 2017 the FDA announced it would strengthen regulation of homeopathic products.The American non-profit Center for Inquiry (CFI) filed a lawsuit in 2018 against the CVS pharmacy for consumer fraud over its sale of homeopathic medicines. It claimed that CVS was selling homeopathic products on an easier-to-obtain basis than standard medication. In 2019, CFI brought a similar lawsuit against Walmart for committing wide-scale consumer fraud and endangering the health of its customers through its sale and marketing of homeopathic medicines. They also conducted a survey in which they found consumers felt ripped off when informed of the lack of evidence for the efficacy of homeopathic remedies, such as those sold by Walmart and CVS.In 2021, the French healthcare minister phased out social security reimbursements for homeopathic drugs. France has long had a stronger belief in the virtues of homeopathic drugs than many other countries and the world's biggest manufacturer of alternative medicine drugs, Boiron, is located in that country. Spain has also announced moves to ban homeopathy and other pseudotherapies. In 2016, the University of Barcelona cancelled its master's degree in Homeopathy citing lack of scientific basis, after advice from the Spanish Ministry of Health. Shortly afterwards the University of Valencia announced the elimination of its Masters in Homeopathy. Preparations and treatment Homeopathic preparations are referred to as homeopathic remedies. Practitioners rely on two types of reference when prescribing: Materia medica and repertories. A homeopathic materia medica is a collection of drug pictures, organized alphabetically. A homeopathic repertory is a quick reference version of the materia medica that indexes the symptoms and then the associated remedies for each. In both cases different compilers may dispute particular inclusions in the references. The first symptomatic homeopathic materia medica was arranged by Hahnemann. The first homeopathic repertory was Georg Jahr's Symptomenkodex, published in German in 1835, and translated into English as the Repertory to the more Characteristic Symptoms of Materia Medica in 1838. This version was less focused on disease categories and was the forerunner to later works by James Tyler Kent. There are over 118 repertories published in English, with Kent's being one of the most used. Consultation Homeopaths generally begin with a consultation, which can be a 10–15 minute appointment or last for over an hour, where the patient describes their medical history. The patient describes the modalities, or if their symptoms change depending on the weather and other external factors. The practitioner also solicits information on mood, likes and dislikes, physical, mental and emotional states, life circumstances, and any physical or emotional illnesses. This information (also called the symptom picture) is matched to the drug picture in the materia medica or repertory and used to determine the appropriate homeopathic remedies. In classical homeopathy, the practitioner attempts to match a single preparation to the totality of symptoms (the simlilum), while clinical homeopathy involves combinations of preparations based on the illness's symptoms. Preparation Homeopathy uses animal, plant, mineral, and synthetic substances in its preparations, generally referring to them using Latin names. Examples include arsenicum album (arsenic oxide), natrum muriaticum (sodium chloride or table salt), Lachesis muta (the venom of the bushmaster snake), opium, and thyroidinum (thyroid hormone). Homeopaths say this is to ensure accuracy. In the USA the common name must be displayed, although the Latin one can also be present. Homeopathic pills are made from an inert substance (often sugars, typically lactose), upon which a drop of liquid homeopathic preparation is placed and allowed to evaporate.Isopathy is a therapy derived from homeopathy in which the preparations come from diseased or pathological products such as fecal, urinary and respiratory discharges, blood, and tissue. They are called nosodes (from the Greek nosos, disease) with preparations made from healthy specimens being termed sarcodes. Many so-called homeopathic vaccines are a form of isopathy. Tautopathy is a form of isopathy where the preparations are composed of drugs or vaccines that a person has consumed in the past, in the belief that this can reverse the supposed lingering damage caused by the initial use. There is no convincing scientific evidence for isopathy as an effective method of treatment.Some modern homeopaths use preparations they call imponderables because they do not originate from a substance but some other phenomenon presumed to have been captured by alcohol or lactose. Examples include X-rays and sunlight. Another derivative is electrohomeopathy, where an electric bio-energy of therapeutic value is supposedly extracted from plants. Popular in the late nineteenth century, electrohomeopathy is extremely pseudo-scientific. In 2012, the Allahabad High Court in Uttar Pradesh, India, handed down a decree stating that electrohomeopathy was quackery and no longer recognized it as a system of medicine .Other minority practices include paper preparations, in which the terms for substances and dilutions are written on pieces of paper and either pinned to the patients' clothing, put in their pockets, or placed under glasses of water that are then given to the patients. Radionics, the use of electromagnetic radiation such as radio waves, can also be used to manufacture preparations. Such practices have been strongly criticized by classical homeopaths as unfounded, speculative, and verging upon magic and superstition. Flower preparations are produced by placing flowers in water and exposing them to sunlight. The most famous of these are the Bach flower remedies, which were developed by Edward Bach. Dilutions Hahnemann claimed that undiluted doses caused reactions, sometimes dangerous ones, and thus that preparations be given at the lowest possible dose. A solution that is more dilute is described as having a higher potency, and thus are claimed to be stronger and deeper-acting. The general method of dilution is serial dilution, where solvent is added to part of the previous mixture, but the Korsakovian method may also be used. In the Korsakovian method, the vessel in which the preparations are manufactured is emptied, refilled with solvent, with the volume of fluid adhering to the walls of the vessel deemed sufficient for the new batch. : 270 The Korsakovian method is sometimes referred to as K on the label of a homeopathic preparation. Another method is Fluxion, which dilutes the substance by continuously passing water through the vial. Insoluble solids, such as granite, diamond, and platinum, are diluted by grinding them with lactose (trituration). : 23 Three main logarithmic dilution scales are in regular use in homeopathy. Hahnemann created the centesimal or C scale, diluting a substance by a factor of 100 at each stage. There is also a decimal dilution scale (notated as X or D) in which the preparation is diluted by a factor of 10 at each stage. The centesimal scale was favoured by Hahnemann for most of his life, although in his last ten years Hahnemann developed a quintamillesimal (Q) scale which diluted the drug 1 part in 50,000. A 2C dilution works out to one part of the original substance in 10,000 parts of the solution. In standard chemistry, this produces a substance with a concentration of 0.01% (volume-volume percentage). A 6C dilution ends up with the original substance diluted by a factor of 100−6 (one part in one trillion). The end product is usually so diluted as to be indistinguishable from the diluent (pure water, sugar or alcohol). The greatest dilution reasonably likely to contain at least one molecule of the original substance is approximately 12C.Hahnemann advocated dilutions of 1 part to 1060 or 30C. Hahnemann regularly used dilutions of up to 30C but opined that there must be a limit to the matter. : 322 To counter the reduced potency at high dilutions he formed the view that vigorous shaking by striking on an elastic surface – a process termed succussion – was necessary. Homeopaths are unable to agree on the number and force of strikes needed, and there is no way that the claimed results of succussion can be tested. : 67–69 Critics of homeopathy commonly emphasize the dilutions involved in homeopathy, using analogies. One mathematically correct example is that a 12C solution is equivalent to a pinch of salt in both the North and South Atlantic Oceans. One-third of a drop of some original substance diluted into all the water on earth would produce a preparation with a concentration of about 13C. A 200C dilution of duck liver, marketed under the name Oscillococcinum, would require 10320 universes worth of molecules to contain just one original molecule in the final substance. The high dilutions characteristically used are often considered to be the most controversial and implausible aspect of homeopathy. Provings Homeopaths claim that they can determine the properties of their preparations by following a method which they call proving. As performed by Hahnemann, provings involved administering various preparations to healthy volunteers. The volunteers were then observed, often for months at a time. They were made to keep extensive journals detailing all of their symptoms at specific times throughout the day. They were forbidden from consuming coffee, tea, spices, or wine for the duration of the experiment; playing chess was also prohibited because Hahnemann considered it to be too exciting, though they were allowed to drink beer and encouraged to exercise in moderation. At first Hahnemann used undiluted doses for provings, but he later advocated provings with preparations at a 30C dilution, and most modern provings are carried out using ultra-dilute preparations.Provings are claimed to have been important in the development of the clinical trial, due to their early use of simple control groups, systematic and quantitative procedures, and some of the first application of statistics in medicine. The lengthy records of self-experimentation by homeopaths have occasionally proven useful in the development of modern drugs: For example, evidence that nitroglycerin might be useful as a treatment for angina was discovered by looking through homeopathic provings, though homeopaths themselves never used it for that purpose at that time. The first recorded provings were published by Hahnemann in his 1796 Essay on a New Principle. His Fragmenta de Viribus (1805) contained the results of 27 provings, and his 1810 Materia Medica Pura contained 65. For James Tyler Kent's 1905 Lectures on Homoeopathic Materia Medica, 217 preparations underwent provings and newer substances are continually added to contemporary versions.Though the proving process has superficial similarities with clinical trials, it is fundamentally different in that the process is subjective, not blinded, and modern provings are unlikely to use pharmacologically active levels of the substance under proving. As early as 1842, Oliver Holmes had noted that provings were impossibly vague, and the purported effect was not repeatable among different subjects. Evidence and efficacy Outside of the alternative medicine community, scientists have long considered homeopathy a sham or a pseudoscience, and the medical community regards it as quackery. There is an overall absence of sound statistical evidence of therapeutic efficacy, which is consistent with the lack of any biologically plausible pharmacological agent or mechanism. Proponents argue that homeopathic medicines must work by some, as yet undefined, biophysical mechanism. No homeopathic preparation has been shown to be different from placebo. Lack of scientific evidence The lack of convincing scientific evidence supporting its efficacy and its use of preparations without active ingredients have led to characterizations of homeopathy as pseudoscience and quackery, or, in the words of a 1998 medical review, placebo therapy at best and quackery at worst. The Russian Academy of Sciences considers homeopathy a dangerous 'pseudoscience' that does not work, and urges people to treat homeopathy 'on a par with magic'. The Chief Medical Officer for England, Dame Sally Davies, has stated that homeopathic preparations are rubbish and do not serve as anything more than placebos. In 2013, Mark Walport, the UK Government Chief Scientific Adviser and head of the Government Office for Science said homeopathy is nonsense, it is non-science. His predecessor, John Beddington, also said that homeopathy has no underpinning of scientific basis and is being fundamentally ignored by the Government.Jack Killen, acting deputy director of the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, says homeopathy goes beyond current understanding of chemistry and physics. He adds: There is, to my knowledge, no condition for which homeopathy has been proven to be an effective treatment. Ben Goldacre says that homeopaths who misrepresent scientific evidence to a scientifically illiterate public, have ... walled themselves off from academic medicine, and critique has been all too often met with avoidance rather than argument. Homeopaths often prefer to ignore meta-analyses in favour of cherry picked positive results, such as by promoting a particular observational study (one which Goldacre describes as little more than a customer-satisfaction survey) as if it were more informative than a series of randomized controlled trials.In an article entitled Should We Maintain an Open Mind about Homeopathy? published in the American Journal of Medicine, Michael Baum and Edzard Ernst – writing to other physicians – wrote that Homeopathy is among the worst examples of faith-based medicine... These axioms [of homeopathy] are not only out of line with scientific facts but also directly opposed to them. If homeopathy is correct, much of physics, chemistry, and pharmacology must be incorrect.... Plausibility of dilutions The exceedingly low concentration of homeopathic preparations, which often lack even a single molecule of the diluted substance, has been the basis of questions about the effects of the preparations since the 19th century. The laws of chemistry give this dilution limit, which is related to the Avogadro number, as being roughly equal to 12C homeopathic dilutions (1 part in 1024). James Randi and the 10:23 campaign groups have highlighted the lack of active ingredients by taking large 'overdoses'. None of the hundreds of demonstrators in the UK, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the US were injured and no one was cured of anything, either.Modern advocates of homeopathy have proposed a concept of water memory, according to which water remembers the substances mixed in it, and transmits the effect of those substances when consumed. This concept is inconsistent with the current understanding of matter, and water memory has never been demonstrated to have any detectable effect, biological or otherwise. Existence of a pharmacological effect in the absence of any true active ingredient is inconsistent with the law of mass action and the observed dose-response relationships characteristic of therapeutic drugs. Homeopaths contend that their methods produce a therapeutically active preparation, selectively including only the intended substance, though in reality any water will have been in contact with millions of different substances throughout its history, and homeopaths cannot account for the selected homeopathic substance being isolated as a special case in their process.Practitioners also hold that higher dilutions produce stronger medicinal effects. This idea is also inconsistent with observed dose-response relationships, where effects are dependent on the concentration of the active ingredient in the body. Some contend that the phenomenon of hormesis may support the idea of dilution increasing potency, but the dose-response relationship outside the zone of hormesis declines with dilution as normal, and nonlinear pharmacological effects do not provide any credible support for homeopathy. Efficacy No individual homeopathic preparation has been unambiguously shown by research to be different from placebo. The methodological quality of the early primary research was low, with problems such as weaknesses in study design and reporting, small sample size, and selection bias. Since better quality trials have become available, the evidence for efficacy of homeopathy preparations has diminished; the highest-quality trials indicate that the preparations themselves exert no intrinsic effect. : 206 A review conducted in 2010 of all the pertinent studies of best evidence produced by the Cochrane Collaboration concluded that the most reliable evidence – that produced by Cochrane reviews – fails to demonstrate that homeopathic medicines have effects beyond placebo.In 2009, the United Kingdom's House of Commons Science and Technology Committee concluded that there was no compelling evidence of effect other than placebo. The Australian National Health and Medical Research Council completed a comprehensive review of the effectiveness of homeopathic preparations in 2015, in which it concluded that there were no health conditions for which there was reliable evidence that homeopathy was effective. The European Academies' Science Advisory Council (EASAC) published its official analysis in 2017 finding a lack of evidence that homeopathic products are effective, and raising concerns about quality control. In contrast a 2011 book was published, purportedly financed by the Swiss government, that concluded that homeopathy was effective and cost efficient. Although hailed by proponents as proof that homeopathy works, it was found to be scientifically, logically and ethically flawed, with most authors having a conflict of interest. The Swiss Federal Office of Public Health later released a statement saying the book was published without the consent of the Swiss government.Meta-analyses, essential tools to summarize evidence of therapeutic efficacy, and systematic reviews have found that the methodological quality in the majority of randomized trials in homeopathy have shortcomings and that such trials were generally of lower quality than trials of conventional medicine. A major issue has been publication bias, where positive results are more likely to be published in journals. This has been particularly marked in alternative medicine journals, where few of the published articles (just 5% during the year 2000) tend to report null results. A systematic review of the available systematic reviews confirmed in 2002 that higher-quality trials tended to have less positive results, and found no convincing evidence that any homeopathic preparation exerts clinical effects different from placebo. The same conclusion was also reached in 2005 in a meta-analysis published in The Lancet. A 2017 systematic review and meta-analysis found that the most reliable evidence did not support the effectiveness of non-individualized homeopathy.Health organizations, including the UK's National Health Service, the American Medical Association, the FASEB, and the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia, have issued statements saying that there is no good-quality evidence that homeopathy is effective as a treatment for any health condition. In 2009, World Health Organization official Mario Raviglione criticized the use of homeopathy to treat tuberculosis; similarly, another WHO spokesperson argued there was no evidence homeopathy would be an effective treatment for diarrhoea. They warned against the use of homeopathy for serious conditions such as depression, HIV and malaria. The American College of Medical Toxicology and the American Academy of Clinical Toxicology recommend that no one use homeopathic treatment for disease or as a preventive health measure. These organizations report that no evidence exists that homeopathic treatment is effective, but that there is evidence that using these treatments produces harm and can bring indirect health risks by delaying conventional treatment. Purported effects in other biological systems While some articles have suggested that homeopathic solutions of high dilution can have statistically significant effects on organic processes including the growth of grain and enzyme reactions, such evidence is disputed since attempts to replicate them have failed. In 2001 and 2004, Madeleine Ennis published a number of studies that reported that homeopathic dilutions of histamine exerted an effect on the activity of basophils. In response to the first of these studies, Horizon aired a programme in which British scientists attempted to replicate Ennis' results; they were unable to do so. A 2007 systematic review of high-dilution experiments found that none of the experiments with positive results could be reproduced by all investigators.In 1988, French immunologist Jacques Benveniste published a paper in the journal Nature while working at INSERM. The paper purported to have discovered that basophils released histamine when exposed to a homeopathic dilution of anti-immunoglobulin E antibody. Skeptical of the findings, Nature assembled an independent investigative team to determine the accuracy of the research. After investigation the team found that the experiments were statistically ill-controlled, interpretation has been clouded by the exclusion of measurements in conflict with the claim, and concluded, We believe that experimental data have been uncritically assessed and their imperfections inadequately reported. Ethics and safety The provision of homeopathic preparations has been described as unethical. Michael Baum, professor emeritus of surgery and visiting professor of medical humanities at University College London (UCL), has described homeopathy as a cruel deception. Edzard Ernst, the first professor of complementary medicine in the United Kingdom and a former homeopathic practitioner, has expressed his concerns about pharmacists who violate their ethical code by failing to provide customers with necessary and relevant information about the true nature of the homeopathic products they advertise and sell. In 2013 the UK Advertising Standards Authority concluded that the Society of Homeopaths were targeting vulnerable ill people and discouraging the use of essential medical treatment while making misleading claims of efficacy for homeopathic products. In 2015 the Federal Court of Australia imposed penalties on a homeopathic company for making false or misleading statements about the efficacy of the whooping cough vaccine and recommending homeopathic remedies as an alternative.A 2000 review by homeopaths reported that homeopathic preparations are unlikely to provoke severe adverse reactions. In 2012, a systematic review evaluating evidence of homeopathy's possible adverse effects concluded that homeopathy has the potential to harm patients and consumers in both direct and indirect ways. A 2016 systematic review and meta-analysis found that, in homeopathic clinical trials, adverse effects were reported among the patients who received homeopathy about as often as they were reported among patients who received placebo or conventional medicine.Some homeopathic preparations involve poisons such as Belladonna, arsenic, and poison ivy. In rare cases, the original ingredients are present at detectable levels. This may be due to improper preparation or intentional low dilution. Serious adverse effects such as seizures and death have been reported or associated with some homeopathic preparations. Instances of arsenic poisoning have occurred. In 2009, the FDA advised consumers to stop using three discontinued cold remedy Zicam products because it could cause permanent damage to users' sense of smell. In 2016 the FDA issued a safety alert to consumers warning against the use of homeopathic teething gels and tablets following reports of adverse events after their use. A previous FDA investigation had found that these products were improperly diluted and contained unsafe levels of belladonna and that the reports of serious adverse events in children using this product were consistent with belladonna toxicity.Patients who choose to use homeopathy rather than evidence-based medicine risk missing timely diagnosis and effective treatment, thereby worsening the outcomes of serious conditions such as cancer. The Russian Commission on Pseudoscience has said homeopathy is not safe because patients spend significant amounts of money, buying medicines that do not work and disregard already known effective treatment. Critics have cited cases of patients failing to receive proper treatment for diseases that could have been easily managed with conventional medicine and who have died as a result. They have also condemned the marketing practice of criticizing and downplaying the effectiveness of medicine. Homeopaths claim that use of conventional medicines will push the disease deeper and cause more serious conditions, a process referred to as suppression. In 1978, Anthony Campbell, a consultant physician at the Royal London Homeopathic Hospital, criticized statements by George Vithoulkas claiming that syphilis, when treated with antibiotics, would develop into secondary and tertiary syphilis with involvement of the central nervous system. Vithoulkas' claims echo the idea that treating a disease with external medication used to treat the symptoms would only drive it deeper into the body and conflict with scientific studies, which indicate that penicillin treatment produces a complete cure of syphilis in more than 90% of cases.The use of homeopathy as a preventive for serious infectious diseases, called homeoprophylaxis, is especially controversial. Some homeopaths (particularly those who are non-physicians) advise their patients against immunization. Others have suggested that vaccines be replaced with homeopathic nosodes. While Hahnemann was opposed to such preparations, modern homeopaths often use them although there is no evidence to indicate they have any beneficial effects. Promotion of homeopathic alternatives to vaccines has been characterized as dangerous, inappropriate and irresponsible. In December 2014, the Australian homeopathy supplier Homeopathy Plus! was found to have acted deceptively in promoting homeopathic alternatives to vaccines. In 2019, an investigative journalism piece by the Telegraph revealed that homeopathy practitioners were actively discouraging patients from vaccinating their children. Cases of homeopaths advising against the use of anti-malarial drugs have also been identified, putting visitors to the tropics in severe danger.A 2006 review recommends that pharmacy colleges include a required course where ethical dilemmas inherent in recommending products lacking proven safety and efficacy data be discussed and that students should be taught where unproven systems such as homeopathy depart from evidence-based medicine. Regulation and prevalence Homeopathy is fairly common in some countries while being uncommon in others; is highly regulated in some countries and mostly unregulated in others. It is practiced worldwide and professional qualifications and licences are needed in most countries. A 2019 WHO report found that 100 out of 133 Member States surveyed in 2012 acknowledged that their population used homeopathy, with 22 saying the practice was regulated and 13 providing health insurance coverage. In some countries, there are no specific legal regulations concerning the use of homeopathy, while in others, licences or degrees in conventional medicine from accredited universities are required. In 2001 homeopathy had been integrated into the national health care systems of many countries, including India, Mexico, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and the United Kingdom. Regulation Some homeopathic treatment is covered by the public health service of several European countries, including Scotland, and Luxembourg. It used to be covered in France until 2021. In other countries, such as Belgium, homeopathy is not covered. In Austria, the public health service requires scientific proof of effectiveness in order to reimburse medical treatments and homeopathy is listed as not reimbursable, but exceptions can be made; private health insurance policies sometimes include homeopathic treatments. In 2018, Austria's Medical University of Vienna stopped teaching homeopathy. The Swiss government withdrew coverage of homeopathy and four other complementary treatments in 2005, stating that they did not meet efficacy and cost-effectiveness criteria, but following a referendum in 2009 the five therapies were reinstated for a further 6-year trial period. In Germany, homeopathic treatments are covered by 70 percent of government medical plans, and available in almost every pharmacy. In January 2024, German health minister Karl Lauterbach announced plans to withdraw all statutory health insurance coverage for homeopathic and anthroposophic treatments, citing a lack of scientific evidence for their efficacy. The English NHS recommended against prescribing homeopathic preparations in 2017. In 2018, prescriptions worth £55,000 were written in defiance of the guidelines, representing less than 0.001% of the total NHS prescribing budget. In 2016 the UK's Committee of Advertising Practice compliance team wrote to homeopaths in the UK to remind them of the rules that govern what they can and can't say in their marketing materials. The letter told homeopaths to ensure that they do not make any direct or implied claims that homeopathy can treat medical conditions and asks them to review their marketing communications including websites and social media pages to ensure compliance. Homeopathic services offered at Bristol Homeopathic Hospital in the UK ceased in October 2015. Member states of the European Union are required to ensure that homeopathic products are registered, although this process does not require any proof of efficacy. In Spain, the Association for the protection of patients from pseudo-scientific therapies is lobbying to get rid of the easy registration procedure for homeopathic remedies. In Bulgaria, Hungary, Latvia, Romania and Slovenia homeopathy, by law, can only be practiced by medical practitioners. However, in Slovenia if doctors practice homeopathy their medical license will be revoked. In Germany, to become a homeopathic physician, one must attend a three-year training program, while France, Austria and Denmark mandate licences to diagnose any illness or dispense of any product whose purpose is to treat any illness. Homeopaths in the UK are under no legal regulations, meaning anyone can call themselves homeopaths and administer homeopathic remedies.The Indian government recognizes homeopathy as one of its national systems of medicine and they are sold with medical claims. It has established the Department of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) under the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. The south Indian state of Kerala also has a cabinet-level AYUSH department. The Central Council of Homoeopathy was established in 1973 to monitor higher education in homeopathy, and the National Institute of Homoeopathy in 1975. Principals and standards for homeopathic products are covered by the Homoeopathic pharmacopoeia of India. A minimum of a recognized diploma in homeopathy and registration on a state register or the Central Register of Homoeopathy is required to practice homeopathy in India.Some medical schools in Pakistan, India, and Bangladesh, offer an undergraduate degree programme in homeopathy. Upon completion the college may award a Bachelor of Homoeopathy Medicine and Surgery (B.H.M.S.). In the United States each state is responsible for the laws and licensing requirements for homeopathy. In 2015, the FDA held a hearing on homeopathic product regulation. At the hearing, representatives from the Center for Inquiry and the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry summarized the harm that is done to the general public from homeopathics and proposed regulatory actions: In 2016 the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) issued an Enforcement Policy Statement Regarding Marketing Claims for Over-the-Counter Homeopathic Drugs which specified that the FTC will apply the same standard to homeopathic drugs that it applies to other products claiming similar benefits. A related report concluded that claims of homeopathy effectiveness are not accepted by most modern medical experts and do not constitute competent and reliable scientific evidence that these products have the claimed treatment effects. In 2019, the FDA removed an enforcement policy that permitted unapproved homeopathics to be sold. Currently no homeopathic products are approved by the FDA.Homeopathic remedies are regulated as natural health products in Canada. Ontario became the first province in the country to regulate the practice of homeopathy, a move that was widely criticized by scientists and doctors. Health Canada requires all products to have a licence before being sold and applicants have to submit evidence on the safety, efficacy and quality of a homeopathic medicine. In 2015 the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation tested the system by applying for and then receiving a government approved licence for a made-up drug aimed at kids.In Australia, the sale of homeopathic products is regulated by the Therapeutic Goods Administration. In 2015, the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia concluded that there is no reliable evidence that homeopathy is effective and should not be used to treat health conditions that are chronic, serious, or could become serious. They recommended anyone considering using homeopathy should first get advice from a registered health practitioner. A 2017 review into Pharmacy Remuneration and Regulation recommended that products be banned from pharmacies; while noting the concerns the government did not adopt the recommendation. In New Zealand there are no regulations specific to homeopathy and the New Zealand Medical Association does not oppose the use of homeopathy, a stance that has been called unethical by some doctors. Prevalence Homeopathy is one of the most commonly used forms of alternative medicines and it has a large worldwide market. The exact size is uncertain, but information available on homeopathic sales suggests it forms a large share of the medical market.In 1999, about 1000 UK doctors practiced homeopathy, most being general practitioners who prescribe a limited number of remedies. A further 1500 homeopaths with no medical training are also thought to practice. Over ten thousand German and French doctors use homeopathy. In the United States a National Health Interview Survey estimated 5 million adults and 1 million children used homeopathy in 2011. An analysis of this survey concluded that most cases were self-prescribed for colds and musculoskeletal pain. Major retailers like Walmart, CVS, and Walgreens sell homeopathic products that are packaged to resemble conventional medicines.The homeopathic drug market in Germany is worth about 650 million euro with a 2014 survey finding that 60 percent of Germans reported trying homeopathy. A 2009 survey found that only 17 percent of respondents knew how homeopathic medicine was made. France spent more than US$408 million on homeopathic products in 2008. In the United States the homeopathic market is worth about $3 billion-a-year; with 2.9 billion spent in 2007. Australia spent US$7.3 million on homeopathic medicines in 2008.In India, a 2014 national health survey found that homeopathy was used by about 3% of the population. Homeopathy is used in China, although it arrived a lot later than in many other countries, partly due to the restriction on foreigners that persisted until late in the nineteenth century. Throughout Africa there is a high reliance on traditional medicines, which can be attributed to the cost of modern medicines and the relative prevalence of practitioners. Many African countries do not have any official training facilities. Veterinary use Using homeopathy as a treatment for animals is termed veterinary homeopathy and dates back to the inception of homeopathy; Hahnemann himself wrote and spoke of the use of homeopathy in animals other than humans. The use of homeopathy in the organic farming industry is heavily promoted. Given that homeopathy's effects in humans are due to the placebo effect and the counseling aspects of the consultation, such treatments are even less effective in animals. Studies have also found that giving animals placebos can play active roles in influencing pet owners to believe in the effectiveness of the treatment when none exists. This means that animals given homeopathic remedies will continue to suffer, resulting in animal welfare concerns.Little existing research on the subject is of a high enough scientific standard to provide reliable data on efficacy. A 2016 review of peer-reviewed articles from 1981 to 2014 by scientists from the University of Kassel, Germany, concluded that there is not enough evidence to support homeopathy as an effective treatment of infectious diseases in livestock. The UK's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) has adopted a robust position against use of alternative pet preparations including homeopathy. The British Veterinary Association's position statement on alternative medicines says that it cannot endorse homeopathy, and the Australian Veterinary Association includes it on its list of ineffective therapies. See also Fringe science List of topics characterized as pseudoscience Scientific skepticism References External links Homeopathy (NHS Choices, UK) Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences (abbreviated as MazUMS) is a medical university in Sari, Mazandaran province, Iran. It is one of the top medical universities in Iran. MazUMS is a type I university of medical Sciences and has more 8,000 students in different programs. History Sari Higher School of Midwifery was established in 1975. Babol School of Medical Sciences became an independent university in 1370 and Gorgan Medical School was established in 1371. With the disintegration of Golestan province in 1997, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences established in Sari city. Faculties School of Allied Medical Sciences School of Dentistry School of Health School of Medicine School of New Medical Technologies School of Nursing and Midwifery School of Pharmacy Training Centers Sari - Imam Khomeini Sari - Bu Ali Sina Sari - Zareh Sari - Fatemeh Al-Zahra Ghaemshahr - Razi Hospitals Imam Ali, Amol Imam Reza, Amol Imam Khomeini, Amol 17 Shahrivar, Amol Hazrat Zainab, Babolsar Imam Khomeini, Behshahr Khatam al-Anbiya, Behshahr Shohada, Behshahr Shahid Rajaei, Tonekabon Haj Azizi, Juybar Ayatollah Taleghani, Chalous Imam Sajjad, Ramsar Shohada, Zirab Imam Khomeini, Fereydunkenar Ghaem, Kelardasht Samen Al-A'emmeh, Galugah Shohada, Mahmudabad Imam Hussein, Neka Imam Khomeini, Noor Shahid Beheshti, Noshahr Specialized clinics Baghban specialized and highly specialized complex Shahrvand Comprehensive Kidney Patients Center Research centers Orthopedics Cellular and Molecular Biology Thalassemia Toxoplasmosis Laboratory Animals Diabetes Gastrointestinal cancer Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Immune genetics Sexual and reproductive health Traditional and complementary medicine Pediatric Infection Health Sciences Pharmaceutical Sciences Invasive fungi Cardiovascular Digestion and liver Demographic studies Microbial resistance Addiction Research Institute Development of Islamic Education and Health Sciences Research in Region 1 Plant and animal products health Hemoglobinopathy Research Institute Research MazUMS has published 1674 scientific articles in domestic journals and conferences. MazUMS is the owner and publisher of 6 specialized journals and so far holding 8 conferences. In addition, 6243 authoritative international articles have been published from this center so far. In 1398, researchers at Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences and Health Services published most of their articles with the keywords cancer and breast cancer. References External links Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences The following is a comprehensive list of universities in Japan, categorized by prefecture. The list contains only universities that still exist today and are classified as schools according to Article 1 of the School Education Law. (See Daigakkō for universities that are not considered schools.) Also, each university or college is listed in the prefecture in which its headquarters is located, not the location of their satellite campuses, etc. or that of some of its departments or divisions. For the list of universities that existed in the past or merged into another school, see List of historical universities in Japan. By prefecture List is sourced from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology's website. Aichi Akita Aomori Chiba Ehime Fukui Fukuoka Fukushima Gifu Gunma Hiroshima Hokkaido Hyogo Ibaraki Ishikawa Iwate Kagawa Kagoshima Kanagawa Kochi Kumamoto Kyoto Mie Miyagi Miyazaki Nagano Nagasaki Nara Niigata Oita Okayama Okinawa Osaka Saga Saitama Shiga Shimane Shizuoka Tochigi Tokushima Tokyo Tottori Toyama Wakayama Yamagata Yamaguchi Yamanashi See also Higher education in Japan List of current and historical women's universities and colleges in Japan List of junior colleges in Japan List of national universities in Japan List of public universities in Japan Lists of universities and colleges Lists of universities and colleges by country National University Corporation National Seven Universities Saraswathi Institute of Medical Sciences is a private medical college located at Anawarpur, near Pilakhuwa in Hapur district, Uttar Pradesh, India. It was established in 2008. Controversies In April 2022, an MBBS girl student filed an FIR against five students alleging to be brutally thrashed and dragged with hair after she opposed ragging. External links Official website Ardabil University of Medical Sciences is a medical university in Ardabil Province of Iran established in 1993. This university has over than 3400 students are studying in six Schools in Ardabil city including Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Nursing & Midwifery, health and international Pardis schools. In addition, there are two academic units in other cities of Ardabil province including, nursing college of Germi, health educational institution of Meshkinshahr. Schools The university contains below schools: Dental Health Medicine and Para medicine health educational institution of Meshkinshahr Nursing and Midwifery Moghan school of Nursing and Midwifery Pharmacy International Pardis School References External links Official website Srinivas Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre is a medical college and medical centre outside Surathkal in Mukka, Mangalore, India. Srinivas was started by the A. Shama Rao Foundation inr 2009. Description Srinivas is affiliated with Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences in Bangalore and is recognized by the Medical Council of India (MCI). Srinivas serves the Tulu linguistic minority category, with a few seats are reserved for Tulu candidates. Admissions to MBBS course is through All India entrance test (NEET) and the total intake per year is 150. Medical campus is in mukka About the foundation The A. Shama Rao Foundation operates a group of higher education institutions in India. The foundation was established in 1988 in memory of Adka Shama Rao References External links https://web.archive.org/web/20131227185118/http://www.srinivasgroup.com/medical/ https://web.archive.org/web/20130607111811/http://www.mciindia.org/InformationDesk/ForStudents/ListofCollegesTeachingMBBS.aspx http://www.mciindia.org/Assessment_Reports/5381_922012172540.pdf List of educational institutions in Mangalore Government Medical College, Palakkad, also known as Institute of Integrated Medical Science (IIMS) is a medical college established in Palakkad District on 2014 by Government of Kerala, under the management of Kerala State Scheduled Caste Development Department. The institute is affiliated to Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS). See also List of medical colleges in India References External links Official website Lasers in Medical Science is a bimonthly peer-reviewed medical journal covering laser medicine. It was established in 1986 and is published by Springer Science+Business Media. It is the official journal of Sociedad Española de Láser Médico Quirúrgico, the British Medical Laser Association, the International Academy for Laser Medicine and Surgery, the European Laser Association (ELA), and the World Academy for Laser Education in Dentistry. The editor-in-chief is Keyvan Nouri (University of Miami). According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2020 impact factor of 3.161. References External links Official website Shri Ram Janki Medical College and Hospital or SRJMCH is a government medical college having multiple healthcare facilities and is located in Samastipur, Bihar. It was established in 2024. The college is currently affiliated with Bihar University of Health Sciences. History The college is named after Lord Rama and Sita because the land has been donated by Shri Ram Janaki Math for the construction of this hospital, hence this hospital has been named Shri Ram Janaki Medical College and Hospital, to provide quality medical education and healthcare services to the people of Bihar. Infrastructure Built at a cost of Rs 591 crore, Shri Ram Janki Medical College and Hospital (SRJMCH) has a 500-bed state-of-the-art hospital, equipped with all modern facilities. All its buildings are earthquake resistant. These buildings were constructed while following the environmental norms. The residential accommodation for the college principal, hospital superintendent, doctors, para-medical employees and students have been provided within the campus. A ‘dharmashala’ also has been built on the campus to provide temporary stay to the relatives of patients. See also All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences Patna Medical College and Hospital Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital Redeemer's University is a private university in Ede, Osun, off Ibadan-Osogbo Road, Osun State, Nigeria. Established in 2005, the university is owned by the Redeemed Christian Church of God. History and governance The university was founded by the Redeemed Christian Church of God in 2005. Headed by the General Overseer, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, a PhD holder in applied mathematics. The Federal Government of Nigeria granted an operating license to the Redeemer's University on 7 January 2005. In order to realize its dream, the Redeemed Christian Church of God, the Proprietors of the university, initially acquired a large expanse of land in Ede, Osun state, having obtained the Certificate of Statutory Right of Occupancy in 1997. The site of the university covers an area of about 812 hectares (2,010 acres).The university took off at the temporary site in the Redemption Camp on 11 October 2005 with 4 78 students admitted into three colleges. On 1 February 2006, 473 students matriculated into the colleges to pursue bachelor's degrees in various programmes, and the university has produced 13 sets of graduates. Vice-chancellors Below is the list of vice-chancellors, from inception: Developments and achievements In 2013, the university won a World Bank Grant to fund the establishment of the African Centre of Excellence for Genomics of Infectious Diseases (ACEGID). African Centre of Excellence for Genomics of Infectious Diseases (ACEGID) In 2013, the university won a World Bank Grant to fund the establishment of the African Centre of Excellence for Genomics of Infectious Diseases (ACEGID). To win the grant, Redeemer's University entered a competition with 15 prestigious universities selected from West and Central Africa and after a rigorous exercise and based on the quality of work exhibited in her proposal, the university was awarded the grant which gave birth to the centre. It is a World Bank funded collaborative research center. The partners are West African academic and medical institutions (Redeemer's University, University of Ibadan, Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital in Nigeria, University of Sierra Leone, Kenema Government Hospital in Sierra Leone and Universite Cheik Anta-Diop de Dakar). ACEGID has a mandate to build capacity in the field of genomics in young African scientists and identify and characterize pathogens of unknown origin using microbial metagenomics. Ultimately, the project aims to translate the research outcome into products that can be deployed to the field to contribute to the control, management and elimination of infectious diseases in the African continent. Some achievements of ACEGID Accurate diagnosis of the first case of Ebola in Sierra Leone and Nigeria in the 2014 EVD outbreak Sequenced approximately 250 Ebola virus genomes and made available in open access databank Provided tools and training for disease diagnosis, sequencing and bioinformatics Developed the capacity and provided facilities to study a BL4 pathogen in rural field settings (Nigeria and Sierra Leone) Developed Ebola virus rapid diagnostics test (RDT) for rapid diagnosis of the disease in 10mins Developed a new pan – Lassa fever rapid diagnostics test kit for diagnosis of the disease in 10mins. Discovered 2 novel highly divergent rhabdoviruses in Ekpoma, Nigeria Used clinical sequencing to uncover the origin and evolution of the Lassa virus Discovered neutralizing monoclonal antibodies that target epitopes on Lassa virus glycoproteins giving potential for immunotherapeutic in Lassa fever. Participated in the 1000 genome project for the development of global reference for human genetic variation Received the 1st prize in the life sciences and Medicine category at the 6th Nigerian Universities Research and Development Fair. Trained approximately 1000 young African scientists in the field of Genomics and Bioinformatics between 2014 till date. ACEGID was designated as one of the three Africa's regional reference laboratories for genomic sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 and other emerging pathogens. Academics The university runs both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. Undergraduate programmes started at inception in 2005 with three colleges. They were the College of Natural Sciences, College of Management and Social Sciences and College of Humanities. In the 2012–2013 academic year, the university admitted its first set of M.A., M.Sc., and PhD. students. So far, the university has produced 12 sets of graduates as of November 2020. In the 2019/2020 Academic Session, the university changed from the Collegiate system to the Faculty system. Also in that academic year, the university added two new Faculties, namely the Faculty of Engineering and the Faculty of Environmental Sciences. Earlier in 2017/2018, the university commenced the Faculty of Law and the Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences. Full-Time Undergraduate Programmes Faculty of Engineering This faculty commenced in the 2019–2020 academic session based on the approval of the relevant accrediting bodies. Programmes include: Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering Electrical and Electronics Engineering Computer Engineering Faculty of Built Environmental Studies This faculty commenced in the 2020/2021 academic session and includes programmes such as: Architecture Urban & Regional Planning Quantity Surveying Surveying & Geo informatics Estate Management Building Technology Faculty of Law The faculty of Law offers a five-year law degree (LL.B.) and a four-year direct entry law degree (LL.B.). Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences The departments are: Nursing Sciences Biochemistry Physiotherapy Human Physiology Human Anatomy Public health Medical laboratory scienceThe Physiotherapy and Nursing Sciences are Professional Programmes leading to the award of Bachelor of Physiotherapy (B.PTH) and Nursing Science Bachelor of Nursing (B.NS) respectively; while the other two programmes lead to the award of Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.). Faculty of Natural Sciences The faculty is home to five departments, namely: Biological Sciences, Chemical Sciences, Computer Sciences, Mathematical Sciences and Physical Sciences. The programmes lead to the award of Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degrees. They are: Microbiology Applied Biology and Genetics Applied Geophysics Biochemistry Mathematics and Statistics Geology Industrial Chemistry Computer Science Cyber Security Meteorology Environmental Management and Toxicology Industrial Mathematics Information Technology Statistics Physics with Electronics Faculty of Management Sciences The Faculty of Management Sciences is one of the three faculties (colleges) which took – off at the inception of the university in the 2005–2006 academic session. The programmes are: Accounting Business Administration Finance Insurance Public Administration Transport Management Marketing Faculty of Social Sciences The Faculty of Social Sciences offers four-year degrees (BSc) and three-year direct entry degrees (BSc). Programmes are: Economics Mass Communication Political Science Psychology Sociology Tourism Studies Faculty of Humanities Established in 2005. It comprises four accredited departments: English French History and International Studies Theatre Arts and Film Studies Philosophy Christian Religious Studies Part-Time Undergraduate Programmes Any candidate who wishes to enrol for a part-time programme at Redeemer's University, Ede, must have a minimum of Five (5) Credits Passes in WAEC, NECO or GCE in relevant subjects at not more than two (2) sittings; in addition to OND/HND in relevant fields.Available courses for Part-Time undergraduate programmes include Accounting (B.Sc.) Business Administration (B.Sc.) Banking and Finance (B.Sc.) Christian Religious Studies (B. A.) Marketing (B.Sc.) Foundation/JUPEB Progammes/Courses Foundation/JUPEB (Joint Universities Preliminary Examinations Board) is a programme set up through a consortium of several Universities in Nigeria to unify the admission process of partner institutions through their various preliminary programmes. JUPEB has its headquarters in Lagos State, Nigeria. Any Candidate who wishes to be admitted into any of the Foundation/JUPEB programmes listed below must possess a minimum of five (5) credit passes in WAEC, NECO or GCE in relevant subjects at a sitting or two sittings. Candidates who meet the JUPEB requirements for admission may be admitted into 200 Level after successful completion of the chosen Foundation/JUPEB Programme in the University.. Accounting Actuarial Science Anatomy Architecture Banking & Finance Biochemistry Building Technology Business Administration Christian Religious Studies Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Science Economics Electrical and Electronic Engineering English Estate Management History & International Studies Industrial Chemistry Industrial Mathematics Law Marketing Mass Communication Mechanical Engineering Microbiology Nursing Science Physics with Electronics Physiology Physiotherapy Political Science Quantity Surveying Surveying & Geoinformatics Theatre Arts and Film Studies Tourism Studies Transport Management Urban & Regional Planning Postgraduate Degree Programmes Department of Behavioural Studies PGD, M.Sc, M.Phil/PhD (Psychology) with specialisation in the following areasClinical Psychology Developmental Psychology Industrial/Organisational Psychology Social Psychology2. MMP Masters in Managerial Psychology3. MSc Sociology4. PGD Social WorkMultidisciplinary MBA (Areas of Specialization) Accounting Human Resource Management Business AdministrationDepartment of History & International Studies PGD, Security and Strategic Studies MA (History & Int'l Studies) PhD (History & Int'l Studies)Department of Biological Sciences Msc, PhD (Microbiology) with specialisation in: Food Microbiology Environmental Microbiology Molecular Biology and GenomicsBioinformatics Medical Microbiology (Bacteriology, Virology, Mycology)Department of Physical Sciences MSc, PhD (Physics) with specialisation in: Communication Physics Theoretical and Computational Physics Lower Atmospheric Physics InstrumentationDepartment of Chemical Sciences MSc in Materials Chemistry MSc in Environmental and Analytical Chemistry PhD in Industrial ChemistryDepartment of Biochemistry MSc in Biochemistry M.Phil in Biochemistry Ph.D in BiochemistryDepartment of Computer Science PGD in Computer Science Academic Option Professional Option MSc/MPhil/PhD Computer Science The College of Postgraduate Studies commenced in the 2012–2013 academic year, when the university admitted its first set of M.A., M.Sc., and PhD. students. So far, the college continues to award the following postgraduate degrees: PGD MA MSc MBA MMP MPhil PhD Notable faculty Ahmed Yerima, professor Christian Happi, professor Debo Adeyewa, professor Adebola Adebileje, professor Distinguished alumni Kiddominant, music producer Debo Macaroni, comedian Judikay, Nigerian gospel singer References External links Official website Doctor of Medicine (abbreviated M.D., from the Latin Medicinae Doctor) is a medical degree, the meaning of which varies between different jurisdictions. In the United States, and some other countries, the M.D. denotes a professional degree. This generally arose because many in 18th-century medical professions trained in Scotland, which used the M.D. degree nomenclature. In England, however, Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (M.B.B.S.) was used and eventually in the 19th century became the standard in Scotland too. Thus, in the United Kingdom, Ireland and other countries, the M.D. is a research doctorate, honorary doctorate or applied clinical degree restricted to those who already hold a professional degree (Bachelor's/Master's/Doctoral) in medicine. In those countries, the equivalent professional degree to the North American, and some others' usage of M.D. is still typically titled Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery. History The first medical degrees were awarded by the Schola Medica Salernitana around the year 1000, including to women such as Trota of Salerno. The degrees received legal sanction in 1137 by Roger II of Sicily and in 1231 by Emperor Federico II, in the Constitution of Melfi. In the titles XLIV-LXXXIX of the third book of the Constitutions of 1231, it was established that the activity of a physician (medicus) could only be carried out by physicians holding a medical degree, the Licentia Medendi (license to practice medicine), by the Schola Medica Salernitana (the only school in the kingdom authorized to award degrees in medicine). This degree was awarded after a curriculum composed of three years of study of logic, five years of medical studies, an examination of a commission composed of the professors of the university, a one-year apprenticeship with an expert doctor, and a final examination before the commissioners of the Royal Curia and the Provincial Curias.In 1703, the University of Glasgow's first medical graduate, Samuel Benion, was issued with the academic degree of Doctor of Medicine.University medical education in England culminated with the MB qualification, and in Scotland the M.D., until in the mid-19th century the public bodies who regulated medical practice at the time required practitioners in Scotland as well as England to hold the dual Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery degrees (MB BS/MBChB/MB BChir/BM BCh etc.). North American medical schools switched to the tradition of the ancient universities of Scotland and began granting the M.D. title rather than the MB beginning in the late 18th century. The Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York (which at the time was referred to as King's College of Medicine) was the first American university to grant the M.D. degree instead of the MB.Early medical schools in North America that granted the Doctor of Medicine degrees were Columbia, Penn, Harvard, Maryland, and McGill. These first few North American medical schools that were established were (for the most part) founded by physicians and surgeons who had been trained in England and Scotland. In most countries having a Doctor of Medicine degree does not mean that the individual will be allowed to practice medicine. Typically a physician must go through a year of general medical education in a hospital as an intern and then a residency for at least three years in a specific field of medicine and then take some form of licensing examination in their jurisdiction. A feminine form, Doctress of Medicine or Medicinae Doctrix, was also used by the New England Female Medical College in Boston in the 1860s. By country Professional degrees Afghanistan In Afghanistan, medical education begins after high school. No pre-medicine courses or bachelor's degree is required. Eligibility is determined through the rank applicants obtain in the public university entrance exam held every year throughout the country. Entry to medical school is competitive, and only students with the highest ranks are accepted into medical programs. The primary medical degree is completed in 7 years. According to the new medical curriculum (from 2016), during the 12th semester, medical students must complete research on a medical topic and provide a thesis as part of their training. Students have also a one-year compulsory internship which has to be completed in a teaching hospital. Medical graduates are awarded a certificate in general medicine, regarded as MD and validated by the Ministry of Higher Education of Afghanistan. All physicians are to obtain licensing and a medical council registration number from the Ministry of Public Health before they officially begin to practice. They may subsequently specialize in a specific medical field at medical schools offering the necessary qualifications. After graduation, students may complete residency. The MD specification: Before the civil wars in Afghanistan, medical education used to be taught by foreign professors or Afghan professors who studied medical education abroad. The Kabul medical institute certified the students as Master of Medicine. After the civil wars, medical education changed extensively, and the MD certification has been reduced to Medicine Bachelor. A number of revisions were produced, with the last in 1961.The Normal Diet, a comprehensive listing of what Americans should be eating, was published by the AMA in 1938.A formal partnership between the AMA and the Association of American Medical Colleges formed the Liaison Committee on Medical Education in 1942 in order to establish requirements for certification of medical schools. In 1951, the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals was created through merging the Hospital Standardization Program with quality standards from the American College of Physicians, the American Hospital Association, and the American Medical Association. The commission, established for evaluation and accreditation of healthcare organizations in the United States, governed by a board of commissioners including physicians, consumers and administrators.The AMA publicly endorsed the principle of fluoridation of community water supplies in 1951.The Physicians Advisory Committee on Television, Radio and Motion Pictures was established by the AMA in 1955 in order to maintain medical accuracy in media.The AMA's Committee on Alcoholism issued a statement in 1956 calling alcoholism an illness and encouraging medical personnel and institutions to admit and treat alcoholic patients. 1961–1980 In 1961, the AMA opposed the King-Anderson bill proposing Medicare legislation and took out advertisements in newspapers, radio and television against government health insurance. The AMA established the American Medical Political Action Committee, which was separate from AMA though the Association nominated its board of directors. The AMA's efforts to defeat Medicare legislation was called Operation Coffee Cup and included secretive meetings in which the vinyl LP Ronald Reagan Speaks Out Against Socialized Medicine was played. The AMA created an Eldercare proposal rather than hospital insurance through Social Security.The AMA first published the Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) coding system in 1966. The system was created for uniform reporting of outpatient physician services. The first manual was 163 pages and contained only four-digit codes with descriptions of each. A second edition of the book was published in 1970 with a fifth digit added.In 1969, AMA proposed the Medicredit program. The program was created to be flexible so that all people had an option for health insurance.The AMA published the first Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment in 1971. The guides were later republished in 1977 before the AMA Council on Scientific Affairs created 12 committees to review the guides before the second edition was published in 1984.In the 1970s, the AMA spoke out against gender discrimination in medical institutions.In 1972, the AMA launched a war on smoking and supported legislation that would prohibit tobacco sample disbursement.The following year, in 1973, the AMA urged physicians to combat hypertension through a national program.In 1975, the AMA adopted a policy stating that discrimination based on sexual orientation is improper and unacceptable by any part of the federation of medicine. It adopted a resolution to repeal all state sodomy laws.In 1976, the AMA began encouraging all public facilities to have handicap access. 1981–2000 The AMA released a survey in 1981 that found two short-term effects of dioxin on humans and recommended further studies. By 1983, the AMA accused the news media of conducting a witch hunt against the toxic chemical and launched a public information campaign to counter media hysteria.In the early 1980s, the AMA advocated for raising the national legal drinking age to 21.The Supreme Court of the United States upheld Federal Trade Commission order that allowed doctors and dentists to advertise without professional associations interfering in 1982. The order restrained the AMA from obstructing agreements between physicians and health maintenance organizations.In May 1983, the Journal of the American Medical Association published a report that reviewed cases of childhood AIDS.The AMA called for a ban on advertising and promotion of all tobacco products in any form of media. The AMA also proposed declaring snuff and chewing tobacco a health hazard, increasing the tax on cigarettes, prohibiting smoking on public transportation and urged medical facilities to ban smoking on their premises.A Federal district judge ruled that the AMA had violated the Sherman Antitrust Act in 1987 by depriving chiropractors of access to the Association. The lawsuit, filed by four chiropractors, accused AMA of conspiring to prevent chiropractors from practicing in the United States.In 1990, AMA published Health Access America, which proposed improved access to affordable health care for citizens without healthcare insurance.The Journal of the American Medical Association first documented that Joe Camel cartoons reached more children than adults in December 1991. The Association called for the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company to stop using the Joe Camel character in its advertising because of its appeal to youth.In 1995, Lonnie R. Bristow became the first African-American president of the American Medical Association. Before he became president, Bristow was the first African-American member of the board of trustees and first African-American chairman of the board.In 1996, the AMA campaigned against health plan gag clauses, which prohibited doctors from discussing with their patients treatments not covered by the plan, stating that the stipulations inhibit the communication of information and restrict the care doctors can give their patients. The clauses were removed from the contracts of five leading providers, and laws prohibiting such clauses were passed in 16 states.In 1997, the AMA established the National Patient Safety Foundation as an independent, nonprofit research and education organization focused on patient safety.In 1997, the AMA lobbied Congress to restrict the number of doctors that could be trained in the United States, claiming that, The United States is on the verge of a serious oversupply of physicians.Nancy W. Dickey was named president of the American Medical Association in June 1998. She was the first woman to head the organization and had been part of AMA's leadership since 1977. 2000–present In 2002, the American Medical Association released a report that found a medical liability insurance crisis in at least a dozen states was forcing physicians to either close practices or limit services. The association called for Congress to take action and campaigned for national reform.The American Medical Association launched the Voice for the Uninsured campaign in 2007 to promote coverage for uninsured citizens.In 2007, AMA called for state and federal agencies to investigate potential conflicts of interest between the retail clinics and pharmacy chains.The American Medical Association issued a formal apology for previous policies that excluded African-Americans from the organization and announced increased efforts to increase minority physician participation in the AMA in 2008.In 2009, the American Medical Association released a public letter to the United States Congress and President Barack Obama endorsing his proposed overhaul to the public health care system, including universal health coverage. The following year, it offered qualified support for the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.The AMA officially recognized obesity as a disease in 2013 in an attempt to change how the medical community approaches the issue. In 2014, the Association created the AMA Opioid Task Force to evaluate prescription opioid use and abuse. The American Medical Association supported the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, which introduced Medicare reforms and replaced the SGR formula with increased Medicare physician reimbursement.In 2015, the AMA declared there is no medically valid reason to exclude transgender individuals from serving in the U.S. military. The Human Rights Campaign lauded the decision.The Association announced its opposition to replacing the federal health care law in March 2017, claiming millions of Americans would lose health care coverage.Patrice A. Harris, MD, MA, a psychiatrist from Atlanta, became the AMA's 174th president in June 2019, the organization's first African-American woman to hold this position. Policy positions The AMA has one of the largest political lobbying budgets of any organization in the United States. Its political positions throughout its history have often been controversial. In the 1930s, the AMA attempted to prohibit its members from working for the health maintenance organizations established during the Great Depression, which violated the Sherman Antitrust Act and resulted in a conviction ultimately affirmed by the US Supreme Court. In the 1940s, the AMA opposed President Truman's proposed healthcare reforms, which would have expanded healthcare facilities in low-income and rural communities, bolstered public health services, increased investments in medical research and education, and provided a national health insurance plan to help relieve the burden of excessive healthcare bills from sick persons. The AMA condemned Truman's plan as socialized medicine.The American Medical Association's vehement campaign against Medicare in the 1950s and 1960s included Operation Coffee Cup, supported by Ronald Reagan. Since the enactment of Medicare, the AMA reversed its position and now opposes any cut to Medicare funding or shift [of] increased costs to beneficiaries at the expense of the quality or accessibility of care. However, the AMA remains opposed to any single-payer health care plan, such as the Medicare for All Act. In the 1990s, the organization was part of the coalition that defeated the health care reform advanced by Hillary and Bill Clinton.The AMA has also supported changes in medical malpractice law to limit damage awards, which, it contends, makes it difficult for patients to find appropriate medical care. In many states, high risk specialists have moved to other states that have enacted reform. For example, in 2004, all neurosurgeons had relocated out of the entire southern half of Illinois. The main legislative emphasis in multiple states has been to effect caps on the amount that patients can receive for pain and suffering. These costs for pain and suffering are only those that exceed the actual costs of healthcare and lost income. At the same time however, states without caps also experienced similar results, suggesting that other market factors may have contributed to the decreases. Some economic studies have found that caps have historically had an uncertain effect on premium rates. A recent report by the AMA found that, in a 12-month period, five percent of physicians had claims filed against them.The AMA sponsors the Specialty Society Relative Value Scale Update Committee, which is an influential group of 29 physicians, mostly specialists, who help determine the value of different physicians' labor in Medicare prices. Lobbying Between 1998 and 2020, the association has spent an average of $18 million annually on lobbying efforts. In the first quarter of 2021, they reported $6.36 million in lobbying expenses. Structural racism controversy and outcomes On a February 2021 JAMA podcast a Deputy Editor of the journal proposed that structural racism is an unfortunate term to describe a very real problem, and that taking racism out of the conversation would help to ensure all people who lived in disadvantaged circumstance have equal opportunities to become successful and have better qualities of life. In addition to the comments made during the podcast, JAMA then tweeted out the podcast with the caption No physician is racist, so how can there be structural racism in health care which further added to the controversy. The subsequent controversy led the Deputy Editor and the JAMA editor-in-chief Howard Bauchner to resign. Kirsten Bibbins-Domingo was chosen as Bauchner's replacement making her the first person of color and second woman to ever lead the journal.After the podcast structural racism controversy in 2021, the AMA published a paper that included recommendations to help improve health equity and address structural racism which would encourage explicit conversations about power, racism, gender and class oppression, forms of discrimination and exclusion. Its Advancing Health Equity: A Guide to Language, Narrative and Concepts document asked questions about language and commonly used phrases and terms, with the goal of cultivating awareness about dominant narratives and offering equity-based, equity-explicit, and person-first alternatives. Political donations The association has donated between $1.6 million and $3.4 million in election cycles between 1990 and 2020. Their distributions have varied from near parity for both Democrats and Republicans to heavily favoring Republican candidates at 75% in the 1996 and 2004 elections. Between 1990 and 2020, the majority of contributions came from PAC money. Criticism During the Civil Rights Movement, the American Medical Association's policy of allowing its constituent groups to be racially segregated in areas with widespread prejudice faced opposition from doctors as well as other healthcare professionals. Pressure from organizations such as the Medical Committee for Human Rights (MCHR) resulted in changed policies by the late 1960s.Nobel Memorial Prize-winning economist Milton Friedman as well as his wife, Rose Friedman, have claimed that the organization acts as a guild and has attempted to increase physicians' wages and fees by influencing limitations on the supply of physicians and competition from non-physicians. In the book Free to Choose, the Friedmans stated that the AMA has engaged in extensive litigation charging chiropractors and osteopathic physicians with the unlicensed practice of medicine, in an attempt to restrict them to as narrow an area as possible. The AMA was also criticized for holding up licensing of foreign-trained medical professionals after Adolf Hitler came to power, who were fleeing to the U.S. from Nazi-controlled Germany and adjacent nations. Profession and Monopoly also criticized the AMA for limiting the supply of physicians and inflating the cost of medical care in the U.S as well as its influence on hospital regulation. In a 1987 antitrust court case, a federal district judge called the AMA's behavior toward chiropractors systematic, long-term wrongdoing. The AMA was accused of limiting the associations between physicians and chiropractors. In the 1960s and 1970s, the association's Committee on Quackery was said to have targeted the chiropractic profession, and for many years the AMA held that it was unethical for physicians to refer patients to chiropractors or to receive referrals from chiropractors.In October 2020, the association used Twitter and Facebook to publicly oppose scope of practice creep, where non-physicians are permitted to provide healthcare services without physician oversight. The posts were removed the same day and the AMA commented that they were committed to team-based healthcare guided by a physician to optimize patient outcomes. The American Academy of Physician Assistants published a letter expressing their frustration at the social media posts. Rebekah Bernard from the advocacy group Physicians for Patient Protection publicly criticized the AMA for retracting their social media posts. Structure The AMA is composed of policy discussion groups that meet twice a year for an annual meeting and an Interim meeting. Within the AMA, there are sections that include Medical Students, Resident and Fellows, Academic physicians, Medical School Deans and Faculty, Physicians in group practice setting, Retired and Senior Physicians, International Medical graduates, Woman physicians, Physician Diversity and Minority health, GLBT, USAN, AMA board of Trustees, Foundation and Council. External organizations, called AMA member organizations, come to these meetings by sending representatives. Representatives come from a state, specialty or the federal services/government service medical societies. See also AMA Foundation Leadership Award AMA Manual of Style AMA Scientific Achievement Award American Association of Physicians and Surgeons American Dental Association American Medical Student Association American Osteopathic Association George H. Simmons JAMA Pediatrics List of journals published by the American Medical Association National Physicians Alliance Physicians for a National Health Program C. A. L. Reed References External links Official website Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS Jalandhar) is a medical college and medical research institute based in Jalandhar, India. Location and function Situated in the heart of Jalandhar with an area spread of more than 55 acres, Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Jalandhar was envisaged by the Govt. Of Punjab (GoP) in 1999 as the first medical college cum teaching hospital in Doaba region. PIMS was conceptualized under Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode by PIMS Society, PIMS Medical and Education Charitable Society, Department of Medical Education & Research and GoP to be a tertiary care teaching hospital. The medical college is affiliated to Baba Farid University of Health Sciences. Presently the premier institute is doing exceptionally well under the administration of Resident Director Mr. Amit Singh and Director Principal Dr. Rajiv Arora and has a total of 6 M.B.B.S. batches including interns with a strength of more than 750 budding doctors. Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences has an intake of 150 students in every batch annually which makes it one of the most sought after medical college of Doaba region in Punjab. Departments The hospital has many clinical departments including medicine, general surgery, orthopedics, gynecology and obstetrics, pediatrics, ophthalmology, dermatology and venerology, psychiatry, dentistry, physiotherapy, nephrology, urology, plastic and reconstructive surgery, medical oncology, ENT, chest and TB. The O.P.D. charges are based on P.G.I. norms. The hospital also has pathological, biochemical and microbiological including COVID-19 RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) diagnostic facilities with highly specialized laboratories and imaging techniques including X-Ray, Ultrasound and CT scan. The institute has a blood bank, dialysis unit, COVID-19 treatment facility and round the clock emergency services. Functioning of Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART) centre was allowed in PIMS premises Under National AIDS Control Programme (NACP). Charitable work PIMS also works to serve the society through various charitable endeavors like organizing medical camps and check-ups in areas deprived of medical facilities and has adopted 15 villages in the surrounding area of the city, in which medical camps are organized on regular basis. President of India on 26-June-2018 confers the National Award-2018 to Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Jalandhar in the category of ‘Best Educational Institution’ for recognition of its outstanding and exemplary services in the field of Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse in the state of Punjab. PIMS de-addiction OPD caters to an average of 350 cases per month. In order to reach out to larger population, Department of Psychiatry and Department of Community Medicine, PIMS jointly started a campaign- ‘Nasha Mukti Abhiyan’ in 2015 wherein 15 villages in the vicinity of Jalandhar were adopted with an aim to make their village drug free. Under this campaign, free medical check-ups were provided along with psychiatric counseling, Health Talks were delivered in community and schools on topics like Types of Illicit Drugs, Harmful Effects of Drugs on Health, Family and Community, Methods of Prevention and Knowledge regarding Referral Centres etc. 57 Nukkad Nataks were organized for sensitizing the public about the drug abuse, performed by PIMS MBBS students. The intent of the campaign was to decrease the overall level of substance abuse in the concerned villages and increase the awareness regarding harmful effects of substance abuse. Education The college building consists of classrooms, lecture theatres, labs, museums, a grand central library and a computer centre and has many non clinical departments like anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, community medicine, forensic medicine etc. The college is now offering 4 B.Sc. paramedical courses also. PIMS organized various CMEs and conferences including TRANSCON 2019, the 44th national conference of ISBTI, on its campus. Recently medical college hosted its first convocation ceremony in which 118 MBBS pass-outs from 2014 to 2015 batch were awarded degrees. The chief guest on the occasion was Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor of Baba Farid University. See also Baba Farid University of Health Sciences PGIMER Chandigarh List of medical colleges in India References External links Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences PIMS on MCI Official site King Edward Memorial Hospital and Seth Gordhandas Sunderdas Medical College is one of the foremost medical colleges and hospital in India, located in Mumbai, Maharashtra. It was founded in 1926; it is affiliated with Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS).The medical college (school) provides training to about 2,000 students at the undergraduate, postgraduate, and super-specialty medical courses-level; in undergraduate and postgraduate physical and occupational therapy courses; Masters and Ph.D. courses in various allied specialties. A nursing school is also maintained by this institution. With about 390 staff physicians and 550 resident doctors, the 1,800 bedded hospital treats about 1.8 million out-patients and 85,000 in-patients annually. It provides both basic care and advanced treatment facilities in all fields of medicine and surgery. Funded mainly by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai, this institution renders virtually free of cost service to the underprivileged sections of the society.During the COVID-19 pandemic, on 3 May 2020, Indian Air Force choppers showered flower petals on King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, J. J. Hospital, and Kasturba Gandhi Hospital to pay tribute to healthcare workers fighting for the safety of the people of Mumbai. Rankings The college was ranked 12th among medical colleges in India in 2020 by India Today. Notable alumni Dwarkanath Kotnis (1910-1942), Indian humanitarian physician, served in China during the Second Sino-Japanese War Keshavrao Krishnarao Datey (1912-1983), cardiologist, Padma Bhushan (1969), Fellow Royal College of Physicians Tehemton Erach Udwadia (born 1934), gastroenterologist, Dr. B. C. Roy Award (2000), Padma Shri (2006), Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (2006) Sharad Panday (1934-2004), Indian cardiothoracic surgeon, part of the team that performed the first heart transplant in India Sharad Vaidya (born 1936), cancer surgeon, established Goa Cancer Society, Gosalia Memorial Cancer Hospital, Goa, and NOTE National Organisation for Tobacco Eradication (India). He was instrumental in legislation to reduce tobacco use in India. Nilima Arun Kshirsagar (born 1949), clinical pharmacologist, former dean of KEM, Known for pharmacovigilance, drug development, tropical diseases, drug resistance, and medical education. Nathaniel T., Dr. B. C. Roy Award Kwit memorial Award Amol Kolhe (born 1980), Member of Parliament for Shirur Alok Sharma (neuroscientist), neurosurgeon, researcher and academic Leo Varadkar (born 1979), Irish politician who has served as Taoiseach since December 2022, and previously from 2017 to 2020. References External links Official website Some cases have been remarkable for starting broad discussion and for setting precedent in medical ethics. Research Termination of mechanical ventilation and life support Withholding life-prolonging medical treatment Informed consent to medical treatment Person wishes for assisted suicide Person wishes for euthanasia for another Unique College of Medical Science and Hospital (UCOMS) (Nepali: युनिक कलेज अफ मेडिकल साइन्स एन्ड हस्पिटल), is a medical institution in Rajbiraj, Nepal. It was established in January 2001 in an eastern city of Nepal Rajbiraj. The governing Body of UCOMS is the Medical Council of Nepal, and the Governing Ministry is the Ministry of Education & Sports of Nepal. The college has approximate 1600 students. It has 70 teaching and 50 administrative staff on its rolls. The college primarily offers PCL level medical courses. Now the college offering bachelor level courses. History The college was established in January 2001. Medical & Teaching Hospital 200 bed General Hospital with all medical requirements All the required equipment available. Additional Specialty equipment for Cardiology already available. Medical Sciences Education The academy provides undergraduate and PCL programs in the fields of nursing and medical sciences. The courses offered by the institute are: BPH BN Staff Nurse (PCL) HA (General Medicine) DPH Lab Technician (LT) ANM CMA Research Laboratories Pathology Pharmacy Tissue Culture Bio Technology References See also List of educational institutions in Rajbiraj Bharath Institute of Higher Education and Research (BIHER) also known as Bharath Institute of Science and Technology (BIST), informally Bharath University, and formerly Bharath Engineering College is a private deemed university located in Chennai, the capital of Tamil Nadu, India. It is recognised by the University Grants Commission (UGC) and is accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) with the highest grade of A. It is also approved by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). History Bharath Institute of Higher Education and Research was founded in 1984 as Bharath Institute of Science and Technology by S. Jagathrakshakan. It is among the first autonomous engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu. It was first affiliated to Madras University followed by Anna University. The institute was awarded deemed university status in 2002 by the University Grants Commission in recognition of its academic excellence. Hence, the name was changed to Bharath Institute of Higher Education and Research. In September 2006, it was renamed as Bharath University per a decree issued by the University Grants Commission enabling deemed universities to include the word university in their names. In November 2017, it was again renamed as Bharath Institute of Higher Education and Research following a directive issued by University Grants Commission and an order by the Supreme Court of India to all the deemed universities in India. Academics The university offers undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral programs in fields such as science, technology, engineering, medicine (including dentistry, physiotherapy and nursing), arts and management. Awards Bharath University has won awards in recognition of its academic and research excellence. A few are listed below. It was awarded the Best Private University of the Year by World Education Congress for 2014. The university was awarded the Best Multi Stream University in 2014 by ASSOCHAM. Campuses Bharath University has four campuses, three in Chennai and one in Puducherry. The details of the campuses and their departments are in the list below. Bharath Institute of Science and Technology This is the main campus of the deemed university which was established in 1984. It is in Chennai and was initially known as Bharath Engineering College. The name was changed to Bharath Institute of Higher Education and Research in 2002 when it attained deemed university status. In 2003, the college was again renamed as Bharath Institute of Science and Technology and brought under Bharath University with the other constituent colleges. Departments: Sree Balaji Medical College and Hospital This college was established in 2004 and is in Chennai. Departments: College on the same campus: Sree Balaji College of Nursing, Chennai (estd. 2007) Sri Lakshmi Narayana Institute of Medical Sciences This college was established in 2007 and is in Puducherry. Departments: Sree Balaji Dental College and Hospital This college was established in 2002 and is in Chennai. Departments: College on the same campus: Sree Balaji College of Physiotherapy, Chennai (estd. 2007) Bhaarath Medical College and Hospital Bhaarath Medical College, Chennai has been started with the aim and objective of creating world class health care delivery mechanism and teaching quality medical education on par with other institutions of eminence. Departments: Bhaarath College of Nursing Our goal is to be produce international standard academic health centre in Nursing, we are building on our own cultural values, enhancing humanity, transmitting our heritage, creating innovation in Nursing practice, education and research. Courses Rankings The National Institutional Ranking Framework has ranked Bharath Institute of Higher Education and Research 87 overall and 59 among universities in 2020. See also List of deemed universities Deemed University References External links Official website The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston (UTHealth) is a public academic health science center in Houston, Texas, United States. It was created in 1972 by The University of Texas System Board of Regents. It is located in the Texas Medical Center, the largest medical center in the world. It is composed of six schools: McGovern Medical School, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center UTHealth Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, UTHealth School of Dentistry, Cizik School of Nursing, UTHealth School of Biomedical Informatics and UTHealth School of Public Health. About Established in 1972 by The University of Texas System Board of Regents, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston (UTHealth) is Houston's Health University and Texas' resource for health care education, innovation, scientific discovery and excellence in patient care. The most comprehensive academic health center in The UT System and the U.S. Gulf Coast region, UTHealth is home to schools of biomedical informatics, biomedical sciences, dentistry, medicine, nursing and public health. UTHealth includes The University of Texas Harris County Psychiatric Center, as well as the following clinical practices: UT Physicians, UT Dentists and UT Health Services. The university's primary teaching hospitals are Memorial Hermann-Texas Medical Center, Children's Memorial Hermann Hospital and Harris Health Lyndon B. Johnson Hospital. The president of UTHealth is Giuseppe N. Colasurdo, M.D. Academics John P. and Kathrine G. McGovern Medical School One of the largest medical schools in the United States, John P. and Kathrine G. McGovern Medical School was established by The University of Texas System Board of Regents in 1969 to help shore up the projected state and national shortages of physicians. The school is divided into 23 departments and various specialized research centers. The school's primary teaching hospitals are Memorial Hermann - Texas Medical Center, Children's Memorial Hermann Hospital and Harris Health Lyndon B. Johnson Hospital. The clinical practice of the school is UT Physicians, one of the nation's largest multi-specialty practices. On November 23, 2015, UTHealth announced that the UTHealth Medical School had been renamed the John P. and Kathrine G. McGovern Medical School in honor of a $75 million gift from the John P. McGovern Foundation, the largest gift in the university's history. The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center UTHealth Houston Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences In 1962 there was a movement, led by then MD Anderson Hospital president, R. Lee Clark, to establish The University of Texas Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences at Houston. At that time there were 13 predoctoral students studying with scientists at MD Anderson who were enrolled through The University of Texas at Austin. Six MD Anderson scientists were special members, and four students were special associates, in the Graduate School Faculty at Austin. The Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences was established on June 11, 1963, and activated by the Board of Regents of the University of Texas on September 28, 1963.After a two-year national search to recruit an outstanding scientist as dean of the new school, Paul A. Weiss, was chosen. At the time of his appointment he was 66 and had just retired from the Rockefeller Institute. The Rockefeller graduate program, where the curriculum was interdisciplinary, was the prototype for Weiss' plan for the curriculum. This tradition has been integral to the graduate school's mission. Currently, the deans of the graduate school are Michael Blackburn, and Michelle Barton. In 2017, the school was renamed the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center UTHealth Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences. UTHealth School of Dentistry The UTHealth School of Dentistry offers 10 accredited programs: DDS, dental hygiene, two primary care general residency programs, and specialty programs in endodontics, oral and maxillofacial surgery (OMS), orthodontics, pediatric dentistry, periodontics, and prosthodontics. The dean of UTHealth School of Dentistry is John A. Valenza. The school was founded as Texas Dental College in 1905 and operated as a proprietary school until 1943 when it became part of the University of Texas as the University of Texas School of Dentistry. It was renamed the University of Texas Dental Branch in 1958 and became part of the newly formed University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston in 1972.Students gain clinical skills at affiliated hospitals, school districts and through community outreach projects. UTHealth School of Dentistry also has off-site clinics: University Dental Center (postgraduate general dentistry), UT Professional Building, 6410 Fannin St., Suite 310; UTHealth Pediatric Dentistry (postgraduate clinic), Houston Medical Center Plaza, 6655 Travis St., Suite 460; UT Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons, Scurlock Tower, 6560 Fannin St., Suite 1900.In addition, faculty and students provide dental services inside Texas Children's Health Plan facilities at 700 N. Sam Houston Parkway West in the Greenspoint area and 9700 Bissonnet in Southwest Houston. Jane and Robert Cizik School of Nursing Established in 1972, Jane and Robert Cizik School of Nursing is ranked in the top five percent of graduate nursing programs in the country and is the highest ranked in Texas. Cizik School of Nursing offers programs resulting in a Bachelor of Science in Nursing, Master of Science in Nursing, Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing, Doctor of Nursing Practice degree or a BSN-DNP in Nurse Anesthesia Program. The school also provides a wide variety of settings in which students and faculty can study, conduct research and participate in clinical practice. The dean ad interim is Diane M. Santa Maria, Dr.P.H., M.S.N., R.N., A.P.H.N.-B.C. The school's Student Community Center opened in 2004. The 195,000-sq.-ft. facility has received several local, state and national architectural design awards to date. In November 2017, Jane and Robert Cizik donated $25 million to UTHealth School of Nursing, giving the school the resources and capacity to shape the future of nursing education and health care delivery. In recognition of the Cizik family, the school was renamed the Jane and Robert Cizik School of Nursing at UTHealth. UTHealth School of Public Health Following authorization in 1947, the Texas State Legislature first appropriated funds for this school in 1967. The first class was admitted in the fall of 1969, occupying rented and borrowed space. The main campus of the school is located in Houston in the Texas Medical Center. In response to the need for graduate public health education in other geographic areas of the state, UTHealth School of Public Health established regional campuses in San Antonio (1979), El Paso (1992), Dallas (1998), Brownsville (2000) and Austin (2007). Each campus was established to meet the public health education and research needs of its community. The regional campuses have their own resident faculty and on-site course offerings. Interactive video courses originate from and connect all six of the school's campuses. The school has four academic divisions: Biostatistics and Data Science; Epidemiology, Human Genetics and Environmental Sciences; Health Promotion and Behavioral Sciences; and Management, Policy and Community Health; as well as 15 research centers.UTHealth School of Public Health offers graduate education leading to proficiency in the skills needed for public health careers. The main campus in Houston offers four degree programs: M.P.H., Dr.P.H., M.S. and Ph.D. The regional campuses provide masters- and doctoral-level education to individuals in areas geographically distanced from Houston. This allows faculty and students to target public health issues of particular relevance to the communities in which they are located. The school is accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). The dean is Eric Boerwinkle, Ph.D. UTHealth D. Bradley McWilliams School of Biomedical Informatics UTHealth D. Bradley McWilliams School of Biomedical Informatics (SBMI), formerly known as the School of Health Information Sciences, was founded in 1972 as the School of Allied Health Sciences and is the newest of the six UTHealth schools. In 1992, UTHealth determined it would focus on graduate education in the health sciences. At that time, the school began to shift from traditional allied health baccalaureate programs toward the development of graduate programs to join the other professional and graduate schools in the university. In 1997, the school created the Department of Health Informatics and began to offer a Master of Science in Health Informatics. In 2001, the school name was changed to the School of Health Information Sciences, which also subsumed all faculty and students in the department. The school offered a Master of Science in Health Informatics, a Doctor of Philosophy in Health Informatics and a certificate program in Health Informatics for non-degree seeking students. In 2010, the school underwent another name change and became UTHealth School of Biomedical Informatics. In 2023, following a visionary investment from attorney D. Bradley Brad McWilliams, the school once again changed its name to D. Bradley McWilliams School of Biomedical Informatics. It currently offers certificate programs in health informatics, a Master of Science in Biomedical Informatics with two tracks: a traditional research track and an applied health informatics track; and a Doctor of Philosophy in Health Informatics and dual-degree programs with UTHealth School of Public Health. The dean is Jiajie Zhang. Notable faculty Palmer Beasley James Red Duke, trauma surgeon and professor at the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston (UTHealth) and Memorial Hermann-Texas Medical Center, where he worked on-site since 1972 Lex Frieden, disability rights activist Millicent Goldschmidt, microbiologist Ferid Murad, 1998 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winner for his research on nitric oxide as a signaling molecule in the cardiovascular system Hazim J. Safi, cardiothoracic surgeon Stanley Schultz University housing The university has three student housing properties, one at 7900 Cambridge (Phase I) and two at 1885 El Paseo (Phase II and III). The student housing on Cambridge, a two-story complex, was built in 1982 and includes the Child Development Center. The Phase II housing on El Paseo, a four-story complex, was built in 2005, and the Phase III complex at the same location was built in 2014.Minor dependent residents of both complexes are zoned to the Houston Independent School District. Residents of both complexes are zoned to Whidby Elementary School, Cullen Middle School, and Lamar High School. Research centers and institutes UTHealth has several centers and institutes whose work aligns with the university's mission of education, research and clinical care. Bioinformatics & High Performance Computing Service Center Center for Advanced Heart Failure Center for Antimicrobial Resistance and Microbial Genomics (CARMiG) Center for Biomedical Engineering Center for Cardiovascular Biology & Atherosclerosis Research Center for Clinical & Translational Sciences (CCTS) Center for Clinical Research & Evidence Based Medicine Center for Health Promotion & Prevention Research Center for Health Services Research Center for Healthcare Quality & Safety Center for Human Development Research Center for Infectious Diseases Center for Innovation Generation Center for Laboratory Animal Medicine & Care Center for Membrane Biology Center for Neurobehavioral Research on Addiction Center for Nursing Research Center for Pediatric Population Health Center for Substance Abuse Education & Research Center for Surgical Trials & Evidence-Based Practice (C-STEP) Center for Translational Injury Research Center of Excellence on Mood Disorders Center on Aging Chemical Immunology Research Center Children's Learning Institute Clinical Trials Resource Center (CTRC) Consortium on Aging Cooley Life Center Coordinating Center for Clinical Trials Dan L Duncan Children's Neurodevelopmental Clinic (part of the Children's Learning Institute) George McMillan Fleming Center for Healthcare Management Gulf Coast Consortia Gulf States Hemophilia & Thrombophilia Center Hispanic Health Disparities Research Center Hispanic Health Research Center Houston Center for Biomaterials & Biomimetics Human Genetics Center Institute for Health Policy John P. McGovern, MD, Center for Humanities & Ethics John Ritter Research Program Keck Center for the Neurobiology of Learning & Memory Michael & Susan Dell Center for Healthy Living Neuroscience Research Center Southwest Center for Occupational & Environmental Health Surgical & Clinical Skills Center Texas Medical Center Digestive Diseases Center The Brown Foundation Institute of Molecular Medicine for the Prevention of Human Diseases The University of Texas Prevention Research Center Turner Syndrome Adult Comprehensive Care Center Weatherhead PET Imaging Center See also The University of Texas System Texas Medical Center References External links Official website Shiraz University of Medical Sciences (SUMS) (Persian: دانشگاه علوم پزشکی شیراز Dāneshgāh-e Olum Pezeshki-e Shirāz) is a public medical school located in Shiraz, Iran. Since its inauguration in 1946, SUMS has always been ranked among top medical schools in Iran. Currently, more than 10,000 students are studying in over 200 different disciplines within 17 schools. Iranian students are recruited to SUMS through National Entrance Exam (concours) and registered to the main campus of the university. SUMS also offers international degree and non-degree programs to international students at different levels and disciplines, including Doctor of Medicine (M.D. ),Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS), Doctor of Dental Medicine (D.M.D. ), Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D. ), B.Sc., M.Sc., Ph.D., Specialty, Subspecialty, Fellowship, and numerous Medical Elective and short-term training programs. Moreover, SUMS is in charge of healthcare provision in public facilities, and supervising private healthcare providers throughout its appointed regions in Fars province. SUMS has 45 public hospitals (including 14 teaching hospitals), 2 community health centers in Shiraz,, and 28 health networks throughout Fars province. The University also supervises 17 private hospitals (including 3 charity hospitals) in Shiraz. History Shiraz University of Medical Sciences (SUMS) was founded in 1946 when Shiraz Institute of Higher Health Education (also known as Amouzeshgah-e Alee Behdariye Shiraz) started educating medical experts. In 1949, the facility developed into a medical school which was later governed by Shiraz University-formerly known as Pahlavi University- in 1954.Seven other schools, including the School of Nursing and Midwifery, the School of Dentistry, the School of Nutrition and Food Sciences, the School of Health, the School of Paramedical Sciences, the School of Pharmacy, and the School of Rehabilitation Sciences, were also established in Shiraz within a brief period to train students in various fields allied to medicine. After the 1979 Islamic Revolution overthrew the Pahlavi dynasty, drastic changes were implemented at all universities. The name of Pahlavi University was immediately changed to Shiraz University. Following the establishment of the Iranian Ministry of Health and Medical Education, all departments and schools in the medical sciences began operating under the supervision of the newly established ministry. Therefore, these schools changed into new entities and formed independent medical universities in each province. Consequently, the School of Medicine and the other abovementioned schools at Shiraz University created Fars University of Medical Sciences in 1994. In that time, Fars University of Medical Sciences was the only medical school in Fars province and was in charge of providing medical education and healthcare services in public facilities, as well as supervising private healthcare providers throughout Fars province; therefore, following the establishment of other medical schools in this province, Fars University of Medical Sciences was renamed Shiraz University of Medical Sciences (SUMS), which is still operating under this name. Statistics As of May 2023, SUMS is home to over 900 faculty members and more than 35,000 personnel, who are working at SUMS in different areas, including health, treatment, research, and education. Currently, Over 10,000 students study in a variety of academic disciplines at SUMS teaching facilities and research centers. The university claims a 10:1 student-to-faculty ratio. The faculty is 56% male and 44% female while the student body is 45% male and 55% female. Shiraz University of Medical Sciences (SUMS) is not only responsible for training students in medical fields but also manages all public hospitals, clinics, and healthcare centers throughout its appointed counties in Fars province. The private sector of the health system in these regions also operates under direct and indirect surveillance of SUMS. In total, SUMS comprises: 17 schools, 55 active research centers, 6 research incubators, 45 public hospitals (including 14 teaching hospitals), 2 community health centers in Shiraz, and 28 health networks throughout Fars province. 17 private hospitals (including 3 charity hospitals) in Shiraz are also providing services under the supervision of SUMS. Schools School of Medicine (Founded 1949)School of Dentistry (1969) School of Pharmacy (1989) School of Health Sciences (founded 1984 as Kavar College of Health and then, in 1989, as School of Health Sciences in Shiraz) School of Rehabilitation Sciences (1977) School of Nursing and Midwifery (A.K.A. Fatemeh-e-Zahra School of Nursing and Midwifery; founded 1953 as Nursing Education Center and then, in 1977, as School of Nursing and Midwifery) School of Paramedical Sciences (1987) School of Nutrition and Food Sciences (1985) School of Health Management and Information Sciences (2001) School of Advanced Medical Sciences and Technologies (2012) Virtual School (2007) Estahban School of Paramedical Sciences (2012) Abadeh School of Nursing (A.K.A. Hazrat-e-Zahra School of Nursing; 2011) Sepidan Healthcare Higher-Education Complex (A.K.A. Bagher-al-Olum Healthcare Higher-Education Complex; 2015) Darab School of Paramedical Sciences (2014) Lamerd School of Nursing (A.K.A. Umm al-Banin School of Nursing; 2011) Mamasani Healthcare Higher-Education Complex (2007) Specialization SUMS is known as the major hub for the following scientific areas in the region: Liver Transplantation (major hub in the Middle East) Clinical Immunology (major hub in Iran) Clinical Microbiology (major hub in Iran) Advanced Electronic Education (major hub in Iran)SUMS specializes in the following medical procedures: Notable alumni Ali Asghar Khodadoust, Professor of Ophthalmology, originator of the Khodadoust line method Kamran Bagheri Lankarani, former Minister of Health and Medical Education of Iran Bizhan Aarabi, Professor of Neurosurgery, founder of Neurosurgery Department at SUMS and well-known surgeon for traumatic brain injury Farrokh Saidi, Distinguished Prof. of Surgery, well-known surgeon in the U.S.A and Iran Reza Malekzadeh, Distinguished Prof. of Internal Medicine & Gastroenterology, former Iran’s Minister of Health and Medical Education (1991-1993) Mostafa Moeen, Prof. of Pediatrics, expertise in Clinical Immunology, former Iran’s Minister of Culture and Higher Education (1989- 1993) and former Iran’s Minister of Science, Research, and Technology (1997-2003) Notes See also Higher education in Iran Shiraz University External links Official website International Students Admission at Shiraz University of Medical Sciences The Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, also known as Trivandrum Medical College, is a public medical college in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India. Founded in 1951, it was inaugurated by Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and is Kerala's first ever Medical College. Its campus houses several hospitals and institutions in addition to Medical College Hospital (MCH), including the Colleges of Nursing and Pharmaceutical sciences, the Regional Cancer Centre; an autonomous institution founded jointly by the state and union governments, Thiruvananthapuram Dental College, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology; another autonomous institute under Govt of India, the Priyadarshini Institute of Paramedical Sciences, the Sree Avittom Thirunal Hospital for Women and Children (SAT Hospital), where the highest number of deliveries are reported in Asia, Child development centre (CDC) an autonomous institution under state government and the Multidisciplinary Research Laboratory (MDRL). The Regional Institute of Ophthalmology (RIO), also a part of the college, is being upgraded to a national-level independent institute. Location The college is 7 kilometres (4.3 mi) north of the Thiruvananthapuram Central Railway Station and the KSRTC Central Bus Station. The 232.5 ha (575-acre) campus and hospital campus are west of Dr. C. O. Karunakaran Avenue (formerly the Kumarapuram-Ulloor Road). Across from the hospital is the Chalakuzhi road, which meets the NH544 near Pattom. The college is about 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) from Trivandrum International Airport. History 1948–1980 The history of Medical College starts with construction of Sree Avittom Thirunal hospital for women and children by Travancore Royal Family.Avittom Thirunal was the crown prince of Travancore .His death due rheumatic heart disease lead then Maharaja Sree Padmanabha dasa chithira thirunal balarama verma to construct this unique first few of its kind in India. In 1948, the government of Travancore appointed a committee to formulate proposals for a medical college at Thiruvananthapuram. The committee submitted its report and the scheme was sanctioned in October of that year. C. O. Karunakaran was appointed Special Officer for the implementation of the scheme, and was the college's first dean. The campus was 139 acres (0.56 km2), with hillocks surrounded by evergreen coconut groves and paddy fields and facing the sea, 4 kilometres (2.5 mi) from northwestern Thiruvananthapuram city. Its layout and architectural designs were prepared by J. A. Ritchie of Bombay. The college and hospital buildings were separated by playgrounds for football and hockey, a cricket pitch, courts for tennis, basketball, badminton and volleyball, and a 400-meter track. The foundation stone was laid by Raja Pramukh of Travancore–Cochin (Sree Padmanabhadasa Vanchipala Chithira thirunal Balarama Verma ) at 11:45 am on 26 January 1950, and the first group of students was admitted in August 1951. The college was dedicated by Jawaharlal Nehru at 8:00 am on 27 November 1951 in the presence of Sree Chithira Thirunal. In January 1952, the Sri. Avittom Thirunal Hospital (SATH) was dedicated by Rajkumari Amrit Kaur. A men's hostel opened in 1952, followed by a women's Hostel one year later. The Medical College Hospital was dedicated by Prime Minister Nehru in 1954. The School of Nursing was dedicated by Sethu Lakshmi Bai in 1954, and was upgraded to a college of nursing in 1963. The cancer wing was dedicated in 1958; after two decades, the Regional Cancer Centre was founded. The dentistry course and the first post-graduate course began in 1959. The library was established during the 1960s. The limb center and mental and ophthalmic hospitals were brought into the college. During the 1990s the Regional Institute of Ophthalmology was founded. The Sree Chitra Thirunal Centre, the College of Pharmaceutical Sciences and the Priya Darshini Institute of Paramedical Sciences were established, and the Silver Jubilee Auditorium was built. 1981 to present A specialty block, housing the college's medical and surgical specialties, became operational on 1 July 2010. The block was funded by the prime minister's Swasthya Suraksha Yojna scheme and by the Kerala government. The 253-bed, 160,000-square-foot (15,000 m2) specialty block houses the outpatient clinics and inpatient wards of six specialties, eight operating theatres, six 29-bed intensive-care units and dialysis and kidney-transplant units. It is financed and administered by the Health and Family welfare Department of the government of Kerala. Although the college was initially affiliated with the University of Kerala, since 2010 it has been affiliated with the Kerala University of Health Sciences. Departments The college began with departments of anatomy, physiology, biochemistry and bacteriology. Dr. C. O. Karunakaran was the first principal of the college. The departments were headed by V. Mathew, C. Vareed, Narayana Rao and C. O. Karunakaran, respectively. The department of bacteriology initially consisted of microbiology, pathology and hygiene. During the Asian flu epidemic, the department was in the forefront of isolating the influenza virus under R. Ananthanarayanan. In 1981, an AIDS surveillance center was established in the department. The Department of Community Medicine, established in 1953, was the first of its kind in India. A primary health centre for field training was established in July 1953 in Cheruvikkal, which was moved to Pangappara in 1964. Intern training was initially conducted at the Indo-Norwegian MCH unit in Neendakara. The department has a regional cell for the prevention of epidemic and infectious diseases. Forensic medicine which was part of community medicine, became a separate entity in 1966 under V. Kanthasamy. Medico-legal autopsies have been performed since 1955, and the department became a state medico-legal institute in 1986. The department of pharmacology later established an experimental pharmacology wing. The clinical departments of medicine and surgery and the college hospital were established in 1952. Students were initially trained at the general hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. A department of infectious diseases was established in 1983. R. Kesavan Nair, chief surgeon at the general hospital, was appointed professor of surgery and the department of surgery was established. Recognizing the importance of the new specialty of orthopedic surgery, the government of Travancore sent K. I. George of the health services department to the UK for advanced training. George joined the college in 1956, and founded Kerala's first department of orthopedics. The department of pediatrics, initially under general medicine, has the highest number of patients in Kerala. The obstetrics and gynecology department began in 1954 and was later added to the family-planning clinic contraception testing unit, the WHO training center and the infertility clinic. The department of physical medicine and rehabilitation, established in 1968, pioneered disability management and the treatment of occupational diseases in India. Specialty departments were established in 1965 with neurosurgery under M. Sambasivan, former president of the World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies. The department of cardiology was established in 1972, and nephrology in 1981. Medical and surgical gastroenterology units were established in 1972 and 1975, respectively. Institutions and units Medical college In addition to an MBBS programme, postgraduate degree and diploma courses in 22 specialties are offered. Medical College Hospital The Medical College Hospital provides comprehensive health care. It is the largest multi-specialty hospital in South Kerala, serving most of the Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts and adjacent districts in Tamil Nadu. The hospital includes a main hospital block, trauma care and an outpatient department. The 1,950-bed hospital admits 80,000 patients a year and provides over 7,500,000 outpatient consultations. The outpatient block houses outpatient wings of medical and surgical specialties, a pharmacy and resident and graduate housing. The hospital averages 55 major and 125 minor operations and 35 vaginal deliveries and 15 caesarean sections per day. Bed occupancy is 90 to 95 percent throughout the year. The new multi-speciality block of medical college hospital will be inaugurated soon to provide better treatment facilities. Regional Institute of Ophthalmology About 4 kilometres (2.5 mi) from the main campus, the Regional Institute of Ophthalmology is near the general hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. It originated as a government ophthalmic hospital in 1905, and was brought into the National Programme for Control of Blindness in 1995. The RIO is directed by Dr Sahasranamam V. Postgraduate courses in ophthalmology are offered, and a bachelor's-degree course in optometry is available with an annual intake of 20 students. A BSc. Optometry course began in 2010. RIO is India's second government institute offering a bachelor's degree in optometry. It hosts an optical outlet (in collaboration with HLL Life Care) and a dispensing facility. Specialized services including retina, paediatric ophthalmology, low vision, cornea and glaucoma clinics, an eye bank, tele-ophthalmology, a uvea clinic, a dispensing lab and contact-lens and cataract clinics. Kerala's first mobile eye hospital, Sunayanam, operates from the RIO. School of Optometry The School of Optometry is on the RIO campus. A Bachelor of Science (Honours) degree in optometry is affiliated with Kerala University of Health Sciences. GMC Thiruvananthapuram is India's second government institute offering a four-year professional degree course in optometry; the first is All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. Health units The first health unit was established in Neendakara as an Indo-Norwegian collaboration. A primary health centre, founded in July 1953 in Cheruvikkal for field practice, was moved to Pangappara in 1964. Rural health centers for student and intern field practice are in Pangappara and Vakkom. Sree Avittom Thirunal Hospital The women's and children's hospital was dedicated in 1952. It was built by the Travancore royal family in memory of Prince Sree Avittom Thirunal, who died at age eight years of rheumatic heart disease. The hospital houses the departments of obstetrics and gynecology and pediatrics. The OB-GYN department administers the postpartum, family-welfare counseling, infertility, trophoblastic, adolescent and vesicular-mole clinics and WHO and Indian Council of Medical Research collaborative study centers. The hospital also provides pediatric care in cardiology, neurology, nephrology, genetics, surgery and psychiatry, and has one of Asia's highest delivery rates. Specialty block The specialty block, dedicated in 2011, houses the nephrology, urology, neurology, neurosurgery and medical and surgical gastroenterology departments and their out- and inpatient wings, and has 40 ICU beds, 25 high-care beds and six modular operating theaters. Cadaver organ retrieval and transplant began in 2012, making it the first government hospital to offer the service on a wide scale. Biomedical engineering department A team of biomedical engineers and technicians is available at the hospital to maintain its equipment. Child-development centre The Child Development Centre was established by the government of Kerala for early-child and adolescent care and education, premarital counselling, women's welfare and related fields. It has contributed to reducing childhood disabilities and developed the Thiruvananthapuram Development Chart, used to assess child development in community settings. Mental Health Center The Mental Health Center in Oolampara is administered by the college. With more than 150 patients, it is India's second-largest mental health center. In addition to treatment facilities, a rehabilitation center has been established with the aid of Hindustan Latex Limited. Chest Diseases Hospital The former government tuberculosis sanatorium in Pulayanarkottah is now part of the department of respiratory medicine, which is housed here (except for the outpatient department and intensive-care unit, which are at the college). The sanatorium has been renamed the Chest Diseases Hospital. Dental college Thiruvananthapuram Dental College was founded in 1959, one of four dental colleges in India's four southern states. M. Thangavelu, dean of the medical college, was instrumental in organizing the institution. A. M. Clement, a dental surgeon at the medical college, was appointed its first director. The college admits 50 students a year for its BDS course. Postgraduate courses began in 1966. The college has six departments under director N. O. Varghese. College of Pharmaceutical Sciences Established in 1967, Kerala's first pharmaceutical college offers bachelor's and master's degrees and a diploma in pharmaceutical sciences. The college includes departments of pharmacology, pharmaceutics, pharmacognosy, pharmaceutical chemistry and pharmaceutical microbiology. Other facilities are toxicology and animal labs, a drug-information center, morphine-tablet manufacturing and a medicinal College of Nursing The college, founded in 1972, is affiliated with the University of Kerala medical school. It has offered postgraduate programmes in nursing since 1987. The college has five areas of speciality training: mental-health nursing, medical-surgical nursing, pediatric nursing, obstetrical and gynaecological nursing and community-health nursing. Although the number of male students permitted to enroll in the school was originally restricted to 12.5 percent of applicants, the restriction has been removed. A specialised nursing wing opened in 2011. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PMR) Department The PMR department is located about 100 metres from the medical college main gate on the Medical College junction - Kumarapuram road adjacent to medical college post office. The department offers both out patient (OP) and in patient (IP) rehabilitation. Neurological, Musculoskeletal and Rheumatological cases across pediatric to geriatric age groups form the bulk of cases attending here. The department offers comprehensive rehabilitation services including physiatry, rehab nursing, physiotherapy, occupational therapy, orthotics, prosthetics, social rehab etc. The department conducts specific clinics for cerebral palsy, sports injury, obesity, stroke and also weekly outreach clinic at Pangappara Medical College unit. Also it provides 3 year post graduation course in PMR (MD PMR) for qualified MBBS graduates. The rehabilitation team at the department consists of physiatrists, rehab nurses, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, orthotists and prosthetists, social workers, rehab coordinator, engineers, office staff etc. It is headed by physiatrists who conduct the daily OP clinics and also attend to the ward patients as well as OP/IP consultations from other departments. Each patient is seen by the physiatrist who conducts a thorough clinical evaluation and focusses on the felt needs and functional status of the patient. The various ways in which the disease has affected the ability to do various activities and participate in social roles is noted. The rehab issues are identified and listed according to priority. Also, the general medical issues/co-morbidities and complications that have occurred as a result of the disease are analysed. Relevant blood and radiological investigations are sent for. The investigative facilities available at the department includes urodynamics, instrumented gait analysis, electrodiagnostics (nerve conduction study, electromyogram), musculoskeletal ultrasonography, pulmonary function tests etc. which are performed by the physiatrists as relevant to the case. Based on the assessment the physiatrist gets an idea about the disease process and potential for further recovery. The physiatrist draws up a rehabilitation program to address the felt needs of the patient and ultimately to improve the functional status to maximum possible extent. Appropriate rehab goals are set which may be immediate, short term and long term. The physiatrist uses medications, exercises, semi invasive interventions and surgeries to improve the quality of life of the patient. Also assistive technology prescriptions are given to the patient. This may be assistive aids, ambulatory aids (canes, crutches, walker), wheelchairs, orthotics, prosthetics etc. Also for the in-patients, the physiatrist looks after the general medical issues/co-morbidities like diabetes, hypertension as well as the specific complications encountered in rehabilitation period like pain, pressure sore, DVT, spasticity, contractures, nutritional issues (anemia, hypoproteinemia etc). Semi invasive interventions done here include prolotherapy with dextrose, platelet rich plasma (PRP), joint infiltration, spinal injection, nerve blocks, botulinum toxin injection, phenol chemodenervation etc. Plaster of Paris procedures like serial casting, total contact casting, splint preparation are done here. Central Library The library, housed in the administrative wing, contains books and academic journals relating to medicine and its allied sciences. Its Learning Resource Center (LRC), established by the college's alumni association, has internet-enabled computers for paid use and subscribes to online medical journals Multidisciplinary Research Laboratory (MDRL) and Animal house A state of the art platform for motivating medical fraternity and students in multidisciplinary research activities. The center consists of Multidisciplinary research unit (MRU- ICMR), Viral research and diagnostic lab(VRDL-ICMR), Physiology research lab and multichannel data acquisition system, Lecture halls and auditorium. Zebra fish research facility has the fully automated systems, the first installation in Kerala. COVID-19 diagnostic lab is currently functioning here. Academics Courses offered by the college are: M.B.B.S. (annual intake 250 students) M.D.-M.S. (annual intake about 160 students in 23 disciplines) D.M.-M.Ch. (18 seats in four and six disciplines, respectively) BSc (Hons.) in Optometry (annual intake 20 students) Bachelor of Pharmacy (annual intake 60 students) BSc (Hons.) in Nursing (annual intake 60 students) BSc (Hons.) in Medical Lab Technology (annual intake 28 students) BSc in Perfusion Technology (annual intake four students) BSc in Cardiovascular Technology (annual intake five students) BSc in Nursing (post-certificate) MSc in Nursing (annual intake 28 students) Master of Pharmacy (annual intake 26 students in Five branches) Master of Science in Medical Laboratory Technology (annual intake 12 students) Master of Science in Medical Physics and Epidemiology (16 seats) M.Phil in Clinical Epidemiology (10 seats) Diploma in CENTRAL STERILE SERVICE DEPARTMENT technology- DCSSDT-course (4 seats ) Diploma in Medical Laboratory Technology (40 seats in the college) Diploma in Radiological Technology (10 seats in the college) Diploma in Dialysis Technology (annual intake six students) Diploma in General Nursing and Midwifery (annual intake 30 students) Diploma in Clinical Child Development (annual intake 12 students) Diploma in Pharmacy (20 seats in the college) Dental Mechanics Certificate Course (annual intake six students) Diploma in Operation Theatre and Anaesthesia Technology (annual intake 15 students) Diploma in Endoscopy Technology (annual intake four students) Diploma in Neurotechnology Diploma in Optometry Timeline 1905 – Ophthalmic hospital opened 1950 – Medical-college foundation stone laid 1951 – First batch of MBBS students admitted 1952 – Opening of SAT Hospital and men's hostel 1954 – Opening of 450-bed medical-college hospital 1958 – Cancer wing opened 1959 – Dental college opened with BDS course, first postgraduate course, nurses hostel 1964 – Artificial Limb Centre opened 1967 – B Pharm course, comprehensive rehabilitation research and training project began 1970 – Mental and ophthalmic hospitals join the college 1972 – BScN course, SCTMC, Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation commissioned 1973 – New nursing-college wing 1975 – College of Pharmaceutical Sciences opened, foundation stone for the Regional Limb Fitting Centre laid 1976 – Teacher-training programme began 1978 – New Regional Limb Fitting Centre building 1995 – Clinical Epidemiology Resource and Training Center 1996 – Dr. C.O. Karunakaran Auditorium opened 2002 – Learning Resource Centre (LRC) 2010 – BSc Optometry course (India's second government optometry school) 2011 – Specialty and outpatient wings 2011 – MSc in Medical Laboratory Technology course, specializing in pathology, microbiology or biochemistry 2012 – First cadaver organ transplant in a Kerala government hospital 2013 – First test-tube baby in a South Indian government hospital 2015 – Skywalk connecting new outpatient and ward wings 2018 – New multispecialty block (MSB) with state of the art Trauma Care ICU, Geriatric Dept and Ward, Critical care ICU, Cardiology ICU Achievements The college follows the Kerala model of health care. The state has maintained health indices at par with developed nations, well above the national averages. This has been studied by a number of agencies for use in other states of India and developing nations. During the 1950s Asian flu pandemic, it was the principal institute to isolate and research the virus. It was ranked 21st in an India Today survey. The college has a good clinical record, but has been lagging in research. It is higher up in the NIRF ranking compared to other medical Colleges in Kerala. SAT Mix, developed by doctors and nutritionists at SAT Hospital, is used throughout India to manage childhood malnutrition and is a cost-effective measure to reduce infant mortality. The Thiruvananthapuram Development Chart, a scale to assess child development, was developed by the Child Development Center and is recommended for community developmental assessment. The college is one of 15 across India to be connected through the National Knowledge Commission's National Knowledge Network to integrate its knowledge base with the global scientific community. Erudite Conclave The college conducted an international Erudite Conclave, the region's first, in November 2011 to provide momentum to medical research. Speakers included Nobel laureate in medicine Rolf M. Zinkernagel, ophthalmologist and inventor of inexpensive intraocular lenses Sanduk Ruit, and SRISTI and techpedia.in founder Anil Kumar Gupta. The second conclave, in 2012, was attended by R. Basant, Padmasree Dr. G. Vijayaraghavan, S. Murti (Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Thiruvananthapuram), R. V. G. Menon and former Indian ambassador T. P. Sreenivasan. Student life and activities The number of male and female students in the college is almost equal. In addition to Kerala, students from Lakshadweep, Northeast India and other parts of the country are admitted by recommendation and under the All India quota. The college hosts exchange students from the Karolinska Institute and other public-health and medical schools. Visitors have included Alexander Fleming, E. Lundsgaard, Karl Evang, Julian Huxley, Wharton Young, Jean Aicardi, David Morley and A. Lakshmana Swamy Mudaliar. College union The college union was dedicated in 1952 by Alexander Fleming. Since it is in the state capital, it has been politicized and depoliticized. In accordance with Lyngdoh Committee recommendations, each incoming class selects a representative to the student council, which in turn selects the union office-bearers. Events Athletic Association Day and the college-union inauguration are major campus events. The college has hosted the Kerala University Youth Festival and the Intermedicos Festival several times. Medex public exhibitions were organised in 1974 (as a part of the college's silver-jubilee celebration), 2000, 2001, 2012 and 2017. Annual cultural events (organised by the classes) and sports and games competitions are held on campus. Academic programs include the Erudite Conclave and the Student Medical Research Conference. Intermedicos Genesis 14 was held at the school on 2–8 December 2014. During the annual Interbatch Euphoria, students from different batches compete in the fields of arts, cultural activities, quizzes and sports. Graduation The medical, dental, optometry and nursing colleges organize separate graduation ceremonies. There are no separate graduation ceremonies after postgraduate courses. Notable alumni and faculty C. O. Karunakaran, Special Officer and the first Principal of the Medical College, often referred to as the father of Medical College, Trivandrum. A Rockfeller Foundation Scholarship recipient, he developed smallpox and rabies vaccine indigenously in the Public Health Laboratory of Thiruvananthapuram. R. Kesavan Nair, Kerala's first civil surgeon and FRCS, one of the founding fathers of Trivandrum Medical College, was also its first Superintendent. K. V. Krishna Das, Best outgoing student of first batch with four gold medals, former Director & Professor of Medicine, Chief-Editor of many textbooks and a farmer & philanthropist. A recipient of the lifetime achievement awards of Government of Kerala, Association of Physicians of India and Indian Society of Hematology & Blood Transfusion. Served as Member Governing Board AIIMS, Overseas Counselor Royal College of Physicians UK and Council Member NAMS. Research areas include iron-deficiency Anemia, neoplasms of blood and infectious diseases. One among the expert committee which published public health policy and drug formulary of Kerala. Five of his students have been honored with Padma Shri. M. S. Valiathan, former director of Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology and vice-chancellor of Manipal University in Karnataka. A recipient of the Padma Bhushan and the Indian National Science Academy's Shree Dhanwantari Prize, the cardio-thoracic surgeon has published a number of papers on endomyocardial fibrosis. Axel Höjer, the college's second dean, was a Swedish physician from the Karolinska Institute and director-general of the Swedish Medical Board. He revolutionised community medicine in Europe with education on maternal assistance, infant disease control and sexual-hygiene courses. Jimmy George, Indian volleyball player and a medical student, helped the University of Kerala win the Inter-University Championships from 1973 to 1976. George later joined the Kerala Police. A. Marthanda Pillai, former H.O.D of the Department of Neurosurgery, recipient of Padma Shri in 2011 and founder, managing director of Ananthapuri Hospitals and Research Institute. M. Krishnan Nair, oncologist and founding member of the Regional Cancer Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, is the only Indian member of the World Health Organization's Advisory Committee of the Director General and Cancer Technical Group (CTG). P. K. R. Warrier, Cardio-thoracic surgeon established the college's department of cardio-thoracic surgery in 1964. M. R. Rajagopal, a palliative care physician and founder chairman of Pallium India, is a recipient of Padma Shree and is regarded as the father of palliative care in India. G. Vijayaraghavan, Cardiologist recipient of the Padma Shri, is the founding director of the Kerala Institute of Medical Sciences and popularized 2D echocardiography in India during the 1980s. B. Ekbal, former Vice Chancellor, University of Kerala (2000–2004) Benjamin Pulimood, Gastroenterology pioneer who is the former director of Christian Medical College, Vellore, and has represented Kerala in Santosh Trophy competition. K. S. Manoj, member of the Lok Sabha from Alappuzha. K. N. Raghavan, Former international cricket umpire and former First Secretary of the Indian High Commission at Singapore, is a civil servant at the Indian Revenue Service. M. Subhadra Nair, Former head of the college's department of obstetrics and gynecology who received the Padma Shri in 2014. Mohammed Illias Sahadulla is the founding chairman and managing director of KIMS Healthcare Management and a developer of healthcare facilities in Kerala. Sajeev Koshy, Specialist Endodontist and recipient of the Australian Honours in 2016 and former Federal Secretary of Australian and New Zealand Academy of Endodontists. Sheila Balakrishnan, an author of several textbooks in Obstetrics and Gynaecology is currently a faculty here and heads the Infertility clinic. Sriram Venkitaraman, IAS See also List of medical colleges in India Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research Government T D Medical College, Alappuzha Christian Medical College & Hospital Government Medical College, Thrissur References External links Official website Government Dental College New Indian Express story https://www.deccanchronicle.com/nation/current-affairs/260519/neurosurgery-genesis.html The College of Medical Sciences is a medical school in Bharatpur, Chitwan, Nepal. It conducts the following programs: MBBS (Bachelor of Medicine & Bachelor of Surgery) BDS (Bachelor of Dental Surgery) B.Sc (Nursing) MD/MS (Pre-clinical & Clinical sciences) DM/M.Ch (Gastroenterology, Cardiology, Neurology, Nephrology, Cardiothoracic & Vascular Surgery, Neurosurgery, Urology, GI Surgery) History The duration of the MBBS program is 4 1/2 five and a half years This includes one year of Compulsory Rotatory clinical internship Program. The first two years consists of learning basic science courses, where special emphasis is laid on problem-based and community-oriented learning. In the ensuing two and a half years, the medical students are taught and trained in clinical disciples. The students complete a year of clinical internship in clinical departments as well as in remote outreach health centers before the final medical diploma is issued by the university. With the modern concept of globalization of medical education as well as hospital care of the patients, the College of Medical Sciences has endeavored to educate the undergraduates with the objective of producing medical personnel of high quality. This institution being premiere medical college in the heart of Nepal; besides having very eminent and experienced faculty who are endowed with international fame indulge with a curriculum which is student centered and has learning objectives of wide ranges of subjects. The curriculum is horizontally and vertically integrated and passive lectures are meager. Problem based learning is emphasized and encouraged among the students. Today, the medical college boasts of a highly qualified and experienced faculty mostly from neighboring countries and already five batches have passed out and there are now four batches of students on the rolls from various regions of Nepal, India and SAARC countries. A landmark, in the history of the College of Medical Sciences was the inauguration of the teaching hospital on 21 January 1999 by the Managing Director Shri Nagender Pampati. This has revolutionized the healthcare scenario in this region with a combination of clinical expertise and advanced diagnostic facilities. The first Medical Superintendent of the Teaching Hospital was Prof. G. Thippana, M.D., followed by Prof. B. N. Patowary, M.S., the Head of the Department of Surgery. Links have already been established with the Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh and some of the American Colleges for enhancing the training and service programmes in the college. Further collaborative efforts with International Universities are underway for the purpose of academic co-operation in the teaching of undergraduate and post graduate medical students. References https://web.archive.org/web/20070929084623/http://www.cmsnepal.edu.np/pages/aboutinst.htm The Irish Journal of Medical Science is a quarterly peer-reviewed medical journal that was established in 1832 by Robert Kane as the Dublin Journal of Medical & Chemical Science. Besides Kane, it had distinguished editors like Robert James Graves and William Wilde. It is the official organ of the Royal Academy of Medicine in Ireland and published by Springer Science+Business Media. History The journal was established in 1832 as the Dublin Journal of Medical & Chemical Science. It was then sequentially titled: Dublin Journal of Medical Science (until 1845) Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science (from 1846 to 1871) Dublin Journal of Medical Science (until 1925)In 1925 it obtained its current title and volume numbering was restarted at 1. William Wilde became editor in 1845. Contributors included Dublin physicians Abraham Colles (1773–1840), William Stokes (1763–1845), Sir Philip Crampton (1777–1858), Thomas Ledwich (1823–1858), Arthur Jacob (1790–1874), Robert Adams (1791–1875), Stephen Myles MacSwiney (died 1890), Sir Charles Cameron (1830–1921) and Ephraim MacDowel Cosgrave (1847–1925). James Little (1837–1916) was editor from 1869 to 1875; during his tenure, the journal changed from a quarterly to a monthly publication. Abstracting and indexing The journal is abstracted and indexed in Academic OneFile, Chemical Abstracts Service, CSA, Current Contents/Clinical Medicine, EMBASE, Health Reference Center Academic, IBIDS, INIS Atomindex, PubMed/MEDLINE, Science Citation Index Expanded, Scopus, and Summon by Serial Solutions. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 1.224. See also Dublin Medical Press References External links Official website Index of the Dublin Journal of Medical Science 1832–1949. A UCD Digital Library Collection. Dublin Journal of Medical Science. Hodges and Smith. 1843. Retrieved 16 July 2009 – via Internet Archive. Odisha University of Health Sciences (OUHS) is a public state medical university located in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India, established in 2023 by an Act of the Odisha Legislative Assembly. About Odisha University of Health Sciences has been established on 5 March 2023 to cater the much needed quality in medical education for the state of Odisha as an affiliating university ensuring affiliation, uniformity in various medical academic programmes, training and research in Modern Medicine, Homeopathy, Ayurveda, Dental, Pharmacy, Nursing, Physiotherapy, Laboratory and Radiation Technology. History Odisha was perhaps the only state where medical colleges were being governed by general universities with each affiliated with a separate university. A great disparity has been felt by coming years in areas of uniformity and a lack of nodal agency for the medical education and research in the state. So initially the state government had proposed a health university in the early 2000s, the by-laws and rules for the university were submitted to the government by an expert committee in 2005. After 16 years, the Assembly had given its nod to the Odisha University of Health Sciences Bill on 3 September 2021. OUHS has started functioning from its temporary building at Sishu Bhawan Square, Bhubaneswar as per a notification issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department of Odisha on March 5, 2023 (Panchayati Raj and Lokaseva Divas). The new university will provide uniform and quality medical education in UG and PG courses of Allopathy, Homeopathy, Ayurveda, Nursing, Pharmacy, Physiotherapy, Laboratory technology and other allied medical science courses in the state.For the permanent campus of university, a committee has been formed to suggest an alternative site of approx. 25 acres in the periphery of Bhubaneswar city. In May 2023, Odisha State Cabinet chaired by CM Naveen Pattnaik approved ₹330.17 crore for the establishment of the university which will facilitate achieving excellence in the field of Medical and Allied Health Education and Research. Organisation and Administration Governance The Governor of Odisha is the chancellor of the Odisha University of Health Sciences. This university became active with the appointment of Dr. Datteswar Hota (former dean and principal of SCB Medical College and Hospital) as the first vice-chancellor of OUHS on 5 March 2023. Affiliations The Odisha University of Health Science is an affiliating university and has jurisdiction over all the medical, nursing, and paramedical colleges of the entire state of Odisha covering more than 200 medical and para medical colleges. Affiliated Institutions Allopathic Medical Colleges Government Acharya Harihar Post Graduate Institute of Cancer, Cuttack Bhima Bhoi Medical College and Hospital, Bolangir Fakir Mohan Medical College and Hospital, Balasore Government Medical College and Hospital, Sundargarh Saheed Rendo Majhi Medical College and Hospital, Bhawanipatna Government Medical College and Hospital, Phulbani Dharanidhar Medical College and Hospital, Keonjhar Jajati Keshari Medical College & Hospital, Jajpur Mahanadi Institute of Medical Science and Research, Talcher Maharaja Krushna Chandra Gajapati Medical College and Hospital, Berhampur Pandit Raghunath Murmu Medical College and Hospital, Baripada PGIMER and Capital Hospital, Bhubaneswar Saheed Laxman Nayak Medical College and Hospital, Koraput Sri Jagannath Medical College and Hospital, Puri Srirama Chandra Bhanja Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Burla Private Hi-Tech Medical College & Hospital, Bhubaneswar Hi-Tech Medical College & Hospital, Rourkela Ispat Post Graduate Institute and Super Specialty Hospital Ayurvedic Colleges and Hospitals Government Gopabandhu Ayurveda Mahavidyalaya, Puri Govt. Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Balangir Kaviraj Ananta Tripathy Sharma Ayurvedic College & Hospital, Brahmapur Private Indira Gandhi Memorial Ayurvedic College & Hospital, Bhubaneswar Mayurbhanj Ayurveda Mahavidyalaya, Baripada Sri Sri Nrusingha Nath Ayurved College & Research Institute, Paikmal Homeopathic Colleges and Hospitals Government Dr. Avirna Chandra Homeopathic Medical College & Hospital, Bhubaneswar Biju Pattnaik Homeopathic Medical College & Hospital, Brahmapur Odisha Medical College of Homeopathy & Research, Sambalpur Utkalmani Homeopathic Medical College & Hospital, Rourkela Private Mayurbhanj Homeopathic Medical College & Hospital, Baripada Cuttack Homeopathic Medical College & Hospital, Cuttack Dental Colleges Government S.C.B. Dental College and Hospital, Cuttack Private Hi-Tech Dental College and hospital, Bhubaneswar Pharmacy Colleges Private College Of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tamando, Bhubaneswar College Of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mohuda, Brahmapur College Of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Baliguali, Puri Dadhichi College Of Pharmacy, Sundargram, Cuttack Gayatri College Of Pharmacy, Jamadarpali, Sambalpur Gayatri Institute Of Science And Technology Hitech College of Pharmacy Indira Gandhi Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Bhubaneswar Institute of Health Sciences Bhubaneswar Institute Of Pharmacy And Technology, (SALIPUR,) Cuttack Odisha IPT is Accrediated By NAAC and B Pharm course Accrediated By NBA New delhi. IMT Pharmacy College, Puri Jeypore College Of Pharmacy Soum Jena College Of Pharmacy & Medical Science, Cuttack Kanak Manjari Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Rourkela Roland Institute Of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Brahmapur, Odisha Royal College Of Pharmacy & Health Sciences Seemanta Institute Of Pharmaceutical Sciences Sri Jayadev College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Bhubaneswar Rehabilitative Science Swami Vivekanand National Institute of Rehabilitation Training and Research, Olatpur International Institute of Rehabilitation Sciences and Research, Bhubaneswar See also Education in Odisha List of institutions of higher education in Odisha Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University Baba Farid University of Health Sciences Dr. YSR University of Health Sciences Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Uttarakhand Medical Education University Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences Kerala University of Health Sciences Madhya Pradesh Medical Science University Maharashtra University of Health Sciences Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences Rajasthan University of Health Sciences Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences Srimanta Sankaradeva University of Health Sciences Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University West Bengal University of Health Sciences References External links http://www.ouhs.ac.in/ Umm Al-Qura University (UQU; Arabic: جامعة أم القرى Jāmiʿah ʾUmm Al-Qurā lit. Mother of All Settlements) is a public university in Mecca, Saudi Arabia. The university was established as the College of Sharia (Islamic law) in 1949 during the reign of King Abdulaziz ibn Saud before being joined by new colleges and renamed as Umm Al-Qura through a royal decree in 1981.UQU started primarily as an Islamic university offering degrees in Islamic Law and Arabic language studies. It now offers more courses in such diverse subjects as Technology Management, Business Management, Islamic Economics, Marketing, Engineering, Technology, Medicine, Education, Architecture, as well various Applied, Social and Engineering Sciences. In 2015, the UQU annual budget hovered around SR 3 billion (US$801,399,900). Colleges College of Da'wa 'Islamic Call' and Fundamentals of ReligionThe College of Da'wa 'Islamic Call' and Fundamentals of Religion was established on 21/12/1401 A.H (20 October 1981) by the Royal Decree No. 27278/32/3. This college is considered as an extension of the two ancient colleges; College of Shari`ah and Islamic Studies and College of Education. It was renamed into the College of Da'wa and Usul-ud-Din which means College of Islamic Call and Fundamentals of Religion.By the beginning of the academic year 1402/1403 A.H (1982-1983), the College started to offer courses and it included four departments for both male and female students, However, by the academic year 1404/1405 A.H (1984-1985), the Department of the Qur'an and Sunna was inaugurated by virtue of resolution No. 30/4/16/6827/1, issued on 22/07/1404 A.H (23 April 1984), according to the resolution of university's high council during its second session dated 25/06/1404 A.H (28 March 1984), which required moving the Department of the Qur'an and Sunna from the College of Shari`ah (Islamic Law) to the College of Da'wa and Usul-ud-Din (Call to Islam and Religion's Fundamentals). The College has four departments:1- Department of Da'wa and Usul-ud-Din; 2- Department of Kitab and Sunna; 3- Department of Aqidah (Creed); 4- Department of Qera'at (various readings of the Qur'an). The postgraduate studies in the specializations of the college started since it was supervised by the College of Shari`ah and Islamic Studies, before their separation took effect. In 1420 A.H (1999), the deputy deanship of the College of Da'wa and Usul-ud-Din for postgraduate studies was established as it started to supervise the postgraduate studies in the college. College of Arabic LanguageThe Department of Arabic was established in 1962 as an independent department at the College of Education before it was joined to the College of Shari'a in 1965. Graduate Studies were introduced to the department in 1973 and the College of Arabic Language was created by a royal decree in 1981. The College includes the following departments:1. Department of Arabic Linguistics, Grammar and Morphology. 2. Department of Classical Arabic Rhetoric and Literary Criticism. 3. Department of Literature. The College offers the Bachelors, Masters, and Ph.D. Degrees in all the above-mentioned disciplines, except for the Department of the Languages of Islamic Societies which offers the Bachelors degree only.Faculty members at the CoB are involved in leading-edge research in such diverse areas as Strategic Management, Optimization, Supply Chain Management, Information Systems, Technology Management, Operations Research, Supply Chain Management, Sustainability, Decision Modleing, Accounting and Finance, Marketing Management, Economics, Mathematical Modeling, Pedagogy, etc. The research is disseminated through publications in international journals and presentations at world-renowned conferences, workshop, and symposiums. The CoB faculty members are working on various industry- and government-funded research projects (including, NSTIP, KACST, ICRS, etc.). College of Social SciencesThe College of Social Sciences comprises many departments of Humanities and was established in 1404 A.H (1984) as part of the development process of the University, some departments from the College of Education were separated from the college to become the kernel of the College of Social Sciences; namely Departments of Geography and English Language and Center of English Language. The new College soon began to grow as the University Council approved establishing new departments and centers. So far, the number of departments has become four, listed as follows:1- Department of Geography 2- Department of English Language 3- Department of Social service 4- Department of Media College of EducationAs of Rajab 1390 (September 1970), the College of Education became a university college when it was merged into and became part of King Abdulaziz University, from Rajab 1390 (September 1970) until Rajab 1401 A.H (May 1981) when it finally joined Umm Al-Qura University. During this period, academic departments were established successively and the college eventually comprised the following departments:1- Department of Islamic Education. 2- Department of Curriculum and Instruction. 3- Department of Psychology. 4- Department of Special Education. 5- Department of Physical Education (Sports). 6- Department of Kindergarten. 7- Department of Family Education. 8- Department of Educational Administration. College of Applied SciencesThe College of Applied Sciences, the first scientific college at Umm Al-Qura University, was established in 1990 and includes four departments (Physics, Mathematics, Chemistry and Biology). The college departments award bachelor's and master's degrees and also the departments of chemistry and biology award the Ph.D. degree. It now has over 60 laboratories as well as an interactive training center. College of Engineering and Islamic ArchitectureIn 1402 A.H (1982), the College of Engineering and Islamic Architecture was established as part of the College of Applied and Engineering Sciences. It was the first Engineering department in the university and the kernel that later formed the present College of Engineering and Islamic Architecture.The Academic Departments of the College of Engineering and Islamic Architecture are as follows:1- Department of Islamic Architecture. 2- Department of Electrical Engineering. 3- Department of Mechanical Engineering. 4- Department of Civil Engineering. Degrees offered: Bachelor's and Master's degrees are offered in all the aforementioned departments, all of which are ABET Accredited.Bachelor's degree Requirements: The bachelor's degree normally takes five years of full-time study (ten semesters), and each department requires successful fulfilment of a certain number of credit hours as follows: - Department of Mechanical Engineering: (165) credit hours.- Department of Civil Engineering: (165) credit hours.- Department of Electrical Engineering: (160) credit hours.- Department of Islamic Architecture: (169) credit hours.Master's degree Requirements: The master's degree normally takes two years of full-time study (four semesters), and each department requires successful fulfilment of a certain number of credit hours as follows: - Department of Mechanical Engineering: (42) credit hours.- Department of Civil Engineering: (42) credit hours.- Department of Electrical Engineering: (42) credit hours.- Department of Islamic Architecture: (43) credit hours. College of Computers and Information SystemsThe College of Computers and Information Systems at Umm Al-Qura University was established in 1426H. It includes four academic Departments:1- Department of Computer Engineering 2- Department of Computer Science 3- Department of Information Systems 4- Department of Information Sciences all of which award the Bachelor's degree. The college also award the Master's degree in Computer Science. Years ago the college became internationally accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). It includes 230 members of teaching staff, and 3500 students to achieve the college's vision and its noble mission. College of Dental MedicineThe College of Dental Medicine is one of the latest faculties in UQU. It was founded in 2007 by the decree no. 13/47/1428 dated 27/8/1428 hijri. College of MedicineThe College of Medicine at Umm Al-Qura University, established in 1995 as the first medical college in Mecca. College of PharmacyThe College of Pharmacy was established in the year 2006. During session 39 of the Supreme Council of Higher Education (SCHE), held on 5/10/1426 A.H, a royal decree was issued to establish the College of Pharmacy to join the medical colleges (College of Medicine and Faculty of Applied Medical Sciences) at Umm Al-Qura University. College of Public Health and Health InformaticsThe College of Public Health and Health Informatics was established in 1432 A.H./2011 A.C. in recognition of the need to provide diverse and distinguished learning opportunities in public health sciences and health technology. The college was also established to qualify students and to train manpower working in health institutions at a high level, in public health and health informatics programs. College of Nursing’’ In 1426H, a royal decree stipulated separation of the then department of medical sciences from the College of Medicine, to be an independent college, under the name: College of Medical Sciences, of which nursing was one of its programs. The first batch was admitted to the Nursing Department in the university year of 1428-1429H, when it was one of the departments of the College of Applied Medical Sciences. Later on, in Rabea' al-Awwal 1433H, the Department of Nursing was separated from the College of Applied Medical Sciences to constitute an independent college, with Dr. Ayman Jawaherji as its first dean.The college is made up of three departments: - Department of community nursing and mass-gathering health care, - Department of Nursing Science and Research, - Department of Nursing Practices. College of Applied medical ScienceIn 1983 A.D., the Universities Supreme Council approved in its first session dated 20/05/1403 A.H (5 March 1983), the establishment of the Medical Sciences Department, to be affiliate to the College of Applied Sciences, Umm Al-Qura University, Makkah Al-Mukarramah. The first class was admitted in 1985, consisting of 20 students and the Department became the seed of the College of Medicine and Medical Sciences. In 1986, the late King Fahd Ibn Abdul Aziz, laid down the cornerstone of the new campus of Umm Al-Qura University in Abidiyyah and issued directives to adopt necessary preparations and steps for the establishment of a college for medicine and medical sciences as well as a university hospital for the college students' education and training. In 1995, the resolution of the Universities Higher Council on the conversion of Medical Sciences Department to the College of Medicine and Medical Sciences. The first class of female students was admitted to the College of Medicine and Medical Sciences in 1998. In 2005, the separation between the Medical Sciences Department and the College of Medicine was approved that the Department became an independent college nominated, College of Medical Applied Sciences to encompass four academic specialities:1- Laboratory Medicine Program. 2- Physiotherapy Program. 3- Clinical Nutrition program. 4- Clinical Technology which includes Emergency Medical Services program, Anesthesia Technology Program and Respiratory Care Program. Ranking Over the last years, Umm Al-Qura university has secured its place among the top 500 universities in the world (QS) The latest rankings are as follows: QS Ranking: 447 (2022) Times Higher Education World University Rankings: 601-800 (2022) Notable alumni Accreditation All programs in all the engineering-related colleges were evaluated for Substantial-Equivalency recognition by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). They were found substantially equivalent to similar accredited programs in the US and elsewhere.In May 2014, all Business and Management degree programs offered by the College of Business (CoB) are formally declared Eligible for Accreditation by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The CoB is an academic member of AACSB International and EFMD Global. Nevertheless, with an unfortunate change of CoB leadership and departure of a key professor and leader of these accreditation efforts, these efforts were brought to a screeching stop by the then new-dean Sultan Albogami. With the appointment of a new dean, Ehsan Al-Mua'taz, these efforts towards development and improvement may start again.As of Sept. 2015, all Medical, Dentistry, Nursing, and Pharmacy related academic programs are globally accredited by accrediting bodies in North America and/or European Union.In addition to these global accreditations, the university is fully accredited by the National Commission for Academic Accreditation and Assessment (NCAAA) of Saudi Arabia. See also List of universities and colleges in Saudi Arabia Higher Education in Saudi Arabia Education in Saudi Arabia References External links Umm Al-Qura's Official website Umm al-Qura Clendar N.K.P. Salve Institute of Medical Sciences is a full-fledged medical college in Nagpur, Maharashtra. The college imparts the degree Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS). It is recognised by the Medical Council of India. Selection to the college is done on the basis of merit through the National Eligibility and Entrance Test. Yearly undergraduate student intake is 150. References External links Official website Mashhad University of Medical Sciences (MUMS) is a medical school in Iran. Located in Razavi Khorasan province in the city of Mashhad, it was established in 1949 with Ferdowsi University of Mashad and separated in 1986 from its parent institution by national legislation. The 2007 rankings put Mashhad University in 3rd place nationally.MUMS has 8 faculties, operates 32 hospitals plus 179 rural and 147 urban health care centers. Its faculty include 600 teaching staff, 1700 physicians, 140 dentists, 130 pharmacists, and 25,402 staff employees. In 2001, 7,000 students were enrolled full-time. History Mashhad School of Medecine was founded in 1941 with the sole mission of educating students and dispatching them to rural areas where access to medical care was desperately needed. In 1965 Badri Teymourtash and Esmael Sondoozi founded the university's School of Dentistry.In 1989, the faculties offering Medical Sciences' degrees across the country separated from the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education. New emerging medical universities have gone under management of Ministry of Health, Treatment and Medical Education. Thus the original University of Mashhad was divided into two independent universities: Ferdowsi University of Mashhad and Mashhad University of Medical Sciences. Mashhad University of Medical Sciences now operates with 8 faculties, 32 hospitals, 179 rural and 147 urban health centers. With 597 teaching staff, 1645 MDs with different specialties, 138 dentists, 123 pharmacists and 25, 402 employees, the university provides health care and medical services to the area's population. Overview Mashhad University of Medical Sciences is the main responsible of health of the Khorasan community. Schools & faculties School of Medicine School of Dentistry School of Public Health School of Nursery and Midwifery School of Nursery and Midwifery School of Paramedical School of Traditional Medicine School of Pharmacy School of Veterinary Medicine Hospitals Dr Sheikh Pediatric Hospital Ebn-e-Sina Psychiatry Hospital Dr Shariati Hospital Emam Reza Hospital Ghaem Hospital Hashemi Nezhad Hospital Khatam-al-Anbia Ophthalmology Hospital Montaserieh Transplant Center Ommul Banin Women Hospital Omid Cancer Center Shahid Kamyab Trauma Hospital Taleghani Trauma Hospital Research centers Allergy Buali Research Institute Biotechnology Center Cancer Research Center Cardiovascular Dental Research Center Dental Material Center Endocrinology and Metabolism Endoscopic Surgery ENT Research Center Eye Research Center Immunology Lung Research Center Medical Physics Medical Toxicology Microbiology and Virology M.R.C.C. for Infertility Nano Medicine Neonatal Research Center Neuroscience Research Center Nuclear Medicine Oral & Maxillofacial diseases Orthopedic Patient Safety & Health Quality Pharmaceutical Pharmacological of M.P. Psychiatry and Behavioral R.C. Skin Disease Surgical Oncology Center Targeted Drug Delivery Vascular and Endovascular Women's Health Admissions for foreign students Students thinking of higher education in the field of medicine or other branches of medical sciences, or of advancing your future career, can apply. World rankings Webometrics Ranking of World Universities, 2012: International Rank: 1459, National Rank: 5. Notable faculty Amirhossein Sahebkar See also Higher Education in Iran References External links Official website Medical Schools in Malaysia generally offer a five-year undergraduate program for future doctors. It is compulsory for newly graduated students to work in governmental hospitals under the housemanship program (also called internship) for a duration of at least two years that combines service and training roles. Internship may be longer at the discretion of each trainee supervisor regarding their knowledge, skills, competency and attitude in each particular discipline, but the total duration of the internship training should not exceed six years At the end of their internship and upon being given full registration as a doctor, every practitioner has to serve a minimum continuous period of two years within the public services upon according to section 40 of the Malaysian Medical Act 1971. As defined under Article 132 of the Federal Constitution, this service may be completed in a government healthcare facility, the Ministry of Health, or other government agencies as determined by the Director General of Health. Admissions Entry to the public medical schools is very competitive. Courses last five or six years. Two years of pre-clinical training in an academic environment and three years clinical training at a teaching hospital. The medical program is usually divided into three phases. Phase 1 consists of the first two years of the programme involving integrated teaching and learning of the relevant basic medical sciences. Phase II (Year 3) and Phase III (Year 4 and Year 5) involve clinical skills development and subsequently consolidation of clinical clerkship in the various clinical disciplines.Medical schools and teaching hospitals are closely integrated. Entry requirements are basically based on Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM), Malaysian Matriculation Programme, GCE A Level, International Baccalaureate (IB), Foundation in Science programme, Diploma in Health Sciences or Unified Examination Certificate. Current medical schools Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) is a medical college located in Gulbarga, Karnataka and run by the Government of Karnataka. The institution is affiliated to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences. Attached Hospitals The teaching hospitals attached to the institution are Government District Teaching Hospital Gulbarga. Government District Hospital is a government run 750 bed hospital with felicities a Regional Diagnostic Laboratory, Dialysis Unit, Blood Bank, Mortuary / PM, X-Ray, Burns Ward, ART Centre and Ayush Center. Admissions Undergraduate courses M.B.B.S. The college offers the four and a half year M.B.B.S. course with a one-year compulsory rotating internship in affiliated hospitals. Departments Access Kalaburagi is well connected by air, railway lines and roads. It is an important rail head on the Central Southern Railway zone line connecting to Bangalore, Mumbai, Delhi and Hyderabad. It is well connected by National Highways with Bangalore and Hyderabad, which are 610 kilometres (380 mi) and 225 kilometres (140 mi) away respectively, from Kalaburagi. Road distances to other cities within the state are: Basavakalyan-80 kilometres (50 mi), Bidar -120 kilometres (75 mi), Raichur - 155 kilometres (96 mi) and Bijapur - 160 kilometres (99 mi). Kalaburagi Airport is the nearest airport. References External links Official website The University of Tokyo (UTokyo, 東京大学, Tōkyō daigaku) is a public research university in Bunkyō, Tokyo, Japan. Founded in 1877 by the merger of several pre-westernisation era institutions such as the Shoheizaka Institute (founded in 1605) and Kaiseijo, it is the nation's oldest modern university.UTokyo consists of 10 faculties, 15 graduate schools, and 11 affiliated research institutes. As of 2023, it has a total of 13,974 undergraduate students and 14,258 graduate students.The majority of the university's educational and research facilities are concentrated within its three main Tokyo campuses: Hongo, Komaba, and Kashiwa. UTokyo also operates several smaller campuses throughout the Greater Tokyo Area. In addition, the university boasts over 60 facilities and offices spread across the Japanese archipelago and the world, each contributing uniquely to the university's activities. UTokyo's total land holdings amount to 326 square kilometres (approximately 80,586 acres, 32,604 hetares, 0.1 per cent of Japan's total land area).UTokyo boasts a distinguished network of alumni, faculty members, and researchers. As of 2021, UTokyo's alumni, faculty members and researchers include 17 prime ministers of Japan (out of 64), 18 Nobel Prize laureates, four Pritzker Prize laureates, five astronauts, and a Fields Medalist.As of November 2023, UTokyo alumni held 139 seats in the National Diet (parliament), representing 19.5 per cent of the total 713 seats. Eleven out of the fifteen incumbent justices of the Supreme Court were UTokyo alumni. Additionally, UTokyo alumni have founded some of Japan's largest companies, such as Toyota Motor and Hitachi. As of 2014, UTokyo alumni held chief executive positions at 47 of the Nikkei 225 companies, making it the top source of these high-level corporate leaders. This number includes Sony, MUFG, SMBC, Mitsui Corp, Mitsubishi Corp, and Japan Post. History Founding The University of Tokyo was chartered in 1877 under its current name (東京大學 Tokyo daigaku), by the Meiji government. It was founded as an amalgamation of older government schools for medicine, astronomy, and various other traditional and modern learning disciplines. In 1886, the university was renamed Imperial University (帝國大學, Teikoku daigaku), and it adopted the name Tokyo Imperial University (東京帝國大學, Tōkyō teikoku daigaku) in 1897, when another imperial university, namely Kyoto Imperial University, was founded using the war reparations from the First Sino-Japanese War.By 1888, all faculties had completed their relocation to the former site of the Tokyo house of the Maeda family in Hongo, where they continue to operate today. Among the few remnants from before this relocation, the most significant is a gate called Akamon (赤門), which has become a widely recognised symbol of the university. During its initial two decades as a modern institution, UTokyo greatly benefited from the contributions of European and American scholars, laying a solid foundation for high-quality education and research. In 1871, the Meiji Government made a decision about the direction of academic disciplines: engineering was to be learnt from the United Kingdom, mathematics, physics, and international law from France, while politics, economics, and medicine were to be guided by German expertise. Additionally, agriculture and commercial law knowledge was to be sourced from the United States.Following this policy, UTokyo and its predecessor institutions sent their graduates to universities in these respective countries and also invited lecturers from there. This led to each faculty at UTokyo adopting distinct research and educational methodologies, reflecting of the academic customs of their respective model countries. However, by the 1880s, the Japanese government grew concerned over the influence of French republican and British constitutional monarchist ideals among the faculty and students of this premier educational establishment. Consequently, the Minister of Education, Takato Oki, instructed UTokyo to reduce the use of English as a language of instruction, and instead to switch to Japanese. This shift coincided with the return of UTokyo alumni who had completed their education in Europe, and these returnees began filling roles that were predominantly held by foreign scholars. Pre-war period Great Kanto Earthquake On 1 September 1923, the Great Kanto Earthquake struck the Kanto Plain, inflicting immense damage upon the university. This damage included the complete destruction of almost all main buildings, including the library, as well as the loss of precious scientific and historical samples and data stored in them. This led to a university-wide debate as to whether it should relocate to a larger site, such as Yoyogi, but ultimately, such plans were rejected. Instead, the university purchased additional land in its vicinity, which was still owned by the Maeda family, and expanded there. The reconstruction of the university and its library was brought up in the fourth general assembly of the League of Nations in September 1923, where it was unanimously decided to provide support. The American philanthropist John D. Rockefeller Jr. personally donated $2 million (approximately $36 million in 2023). The United Kingdom formed a committee led by former Prime Minister Earl Arthur Balfour, and made significant contributions, both financially and culturally. A large portion of the buildings on Hongo Campus today were built during this reconstruction period, and their unique Collegiate Gothic style is known as Uchida Gothic (内田ゴシック) after Yoshikazu Uchida, the architect who designed them. World War II In 1941, the Empire of Japan attacked the American bases at Pearl Harbor and joined the World War II as an Axis power alongside Germany. By late 1943, as Japan faced significant defeats in the Pacific theatre, a decision was made to enlist university students studying humanities, sending them to battlefields. During the war, 1,652 students and alumni of UTokyo were killed, including those from varied civilian professions such as doctors, engineers, and diplomats, as well as those killed in action. They are commemorated in a memorial erected near the front gate of the Hongo Campus. Most students from faculties of engineering and science remained at university or worked as apprentice engineers, as the expertise of science and technology was deemed indispensable for the war effort. The increased demand brought about by the war for engineers, especially in the fields of aeronautics, machinery, electronics, and shipbuilding, led to the establishment of the second faculty of engineering (第二工学部) at UTokyo in 1942. In the newly-built Chiba Campus, around 800 students were enrolled at one time, and pivotal military engineering research activities were conducted. It was closed in 1951, and as a successor organisation, the Institute of Industrial Science was established on the site of the former headquarters of the Third Infantry Regiment in Roppongi.Leo Esaki, who was a student at the department of physics during the war, shared his memory of his university life in 2007: 'The day after the Tokyo Air Raid of 9 March 1945, during which more than 100 thousand citizens were killed, professor Tanaka conducted class as usual, without mentioning the war at all'. The buidings and facilities of UTokyo were largely immune from air raids, allowing education and research activities to continue. Post-war period During the American occupation era following Japan's defeat in World War II, the university dropped the word 'imperial' (帝国) from its name and returned to its original name, the University of Tokyo (東京大学). During this period, Japan's education system was reformed to align more with the American system. As a result, UTokyo merged with two Higher Schools, which were university preparatory boy's boarding schools and thus became a four-year university as it is today in 1949. It was also during this period that UTokyo first opened its doors to female students. UTokyo Conflict The 1960s saw an intensification of student protests across the world, including the Anti-Vietnam War protests and the May 68 events in France. This zeitgeist of the era was prominently felt in Japan as well, symbolised by the 1960 Anpo protests, in which the death of a UTokyo student, Michiko Kamba, caused public outrage. In 1968, the Todai Funsou (東大紛争, UTokyo Conflict) began with medical students demanding improvements in internship conditions, in which medical students were forced to work long hours without being paid before being licensed as a doctor. The conflict intensified with the indefinite strike decision by the students in January 1968 and escalated further following a clash between the students and faculty. Tensions peaked when radical students, most of whom were members of the Zenkyōtō (the All-Campus Joint Struggle Committees), occupied Yasuda Auditorium, leading the university to eventually call in riot police in June— a move seen as abandoning university autonomy. Efforts to resolve the situation began with the resignation of university executives and the appointment of Kato Ichiro as interim president, who started negotiations. The conflict largely ended in January 1969 after a full-scale police operation to remove the occupying students. This operation involved more than 8,500 riot police officers confronting students who fought back with Molotov cocktails and marble stones taken from the auditorium's interior. Prime Minister Eisaku Sato, an alumnus of UTokyo himself (Law, 1924), visited the university the day after the protesters in the auditorium were forcibly removed, and, in tears, decided to cancel that year's entrance exam. This led top highschool students to apply reluctantly to other universities such as Kyoto University and Hitotsubashi University, resulting in many applicants who would have been admitted to those universities under normal circumstances failing to gain admission. (In Japan, applicants are not allowed to apply to multiple prestigious national universities.) The aftermath saw 767 arrests, 616 prosecutions, and varied sentences, marking a turbulent chapter in the university's history. 21st century Women's education Although the university first admitted female students in 1946, the student body has remained predominantly male since then. While it is said that the university alone cannot fully address this issue, as it is deep rooted in Japanese society, various attempts have been made to achieve a more equal gender ratio. In 2023, women made up 23 per cent of the freshers, the highest percentage in the university's history. A quarter of graduate students were female in 2022, and the university is working to improve the percentage further both at the undergraduate and graduate levels. International education As one of Japan's premier educational institutions, it is widely agreed amongst UTokyo's faculty members and students that one of the university's primary roles is to provide comprehensive, high-quality tertiary education in the Japanese language. Shifting the primary language of teaching to English just for the sake of globalisation is believed to undermine the unique values only UTokyo can offer. However, since Japanese is predominantly spoken only in Japan, it is argued that the language barrier deters international students from applying. In fact, international students make up only one-sixth of the total student body. Thus, globalising its campuses is one of the key issues that UTokyo has been eager to address. At the undergraduate level, there are mainly three routes for those who have not received their secondary education in Japanese to apply to UTokyo. First, individuals with high Japanese proficiency can apply through the special admissions process for students educated overseas (外国学校卒業学生特別選考). Students admitted via this route study alongside their peers who received secondary education in Japanese. International students who apply via this route sometimes spend a year studying the language at preparatory schools before matriculation. Second, there is an undergraduate programme called PEAK (Programs in English at Komaba), which accept applications based on international qualifications such as A-levels, SAT, and the International Baccalaureate. All modules in this programme are taught in English. However, learning Japanese is mandatory, and those confident in their Japanese ability can take modules taught in Japanese in other departments. Third, UTokyo offers various exchange programmes with universities worldwide. There are University-wide Student Exchange Programmes (USTEP) with universities such as Tsinghua University, Princeton University, National University of Singapore and Yale University. The College of Arts and Sciences has its own exchange programmes called KOMSTEP with universities such as University of Paris. The Faculty of Engineering also has its own exchange programmes, whose partner institutions include Petroleum Institute, Abu Dhabi, University of Cambridge, and Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Reforms in the 21st century When the British magazine Times Higher Education first published its world university rankings in partnership with QS in 2004, UTokyo was ranked 12th in the world. In the latest 2024 edition of the rankings, it is ranked 29th. QS, now has its own rankings, placed UTokyo at 28th. As these numbers suggest, there is a widely shared concern that the university is falling behind its counterparts in the world, and in the future it may struggle to provide a suitable environment for quality education and world-class research.UTokyo faces a challenging reality. Japan's long-lasting economic downturn since the 1990s has led to Japanese companies less willing to invest in research and development than before. Additionally, the government's Management Expense Grant (運営費交付金) has been reduced by one per cent annually since 2004. This policy, ostensibly aimed at decreasing the university’s reliance on the grant and fostering greater independence, has been blamed as one of the main reasons for the decline in the university’s competitiveness. To address these challenges, UTokyo has implemented various reforms. In 2004, UTokyo Edge Capital Partners (UTEC) was established. This venture capital firm, affiliated with the university, supports entrepreneurship arising from UTokyo’s research and development, aiming to drive innovation across society. In 2006, the first phase of development was completed at Kashiwa Campus. Situated in the suburb of Kashiwa, this research-focused campus spans 405,313 square metres (100 acres) and has been at the forefront of advanced scientific research since its inception. In 2010, in an attempt to further internationalise and diversify its student body, the university increased its autumn enronlemnt opportunities for international students. UTokyo plans to increase the proportion of female faculty members to above a quarter by newly creating positions for 300 female lecturers by 2027.In 2021, the newly-elected President Teruo Fujii announced the UTokyo Compass, a guiding framework for the university during his tenure, focusing on diversity, dialogue, and creating a better future. It emphasises the university's autonomy and creativity in a new era, advocating multifaceted perspectives on knowledge, people, and places. The Compass encourages dialogue throughout the university and society as a pivotal tool for understanding and questioning, fostering inclusivity, and tackling global challenges. In his announcement, he pledged to make UTokyo 'a university that anyone in the world would like to join'. Student life Entrance examination UTokyo's entrance exam (東大入試, todai nyushi) is regarded as the most selective in Japan and is almost synonymous with something that is difficult to achieve. To apply, candidates must achieve high scores in the Common Test for University Admissions (共通テスト) in January, a standardised multiple-choice examination. UTokyo applicants are required to take at least seven subjects in this exam. Applicants for natural sciences must take two mathematics tests, Japanese (which includes modern language, classics, and Chinese classics), English (reading and listening comprehension), Sciences (two from Physics, Chemistry, Biology, and Geology), and one Social Study subject (chosen from Geography, Japanese History, or World History). Humanities candidates must take two Social Studies subjects and one Science subject instead.Based on the scores from the Common Test, approximately three times the number of the final admission slots are invited to take the main exam in late February. Based on the idea that regardless of the field of specialisation, all students should have a solid understanding of mathematics and a good command of languages, mathematics, Japanese and one foreign language are compulsory for all applicants. For this exam, science candidates are tested in Advanced Mathematics, English, Japanese, and two science subjects. Humanities candidates take Mathematics, English, Advanced Japanese, and two social studies subjects (options are Geography, Japanese History, World History). UTokyo is also known to be the only university that requires all applicants, including those who wish to study natural sciences, to take a non-mulltiple-choice Japanese and Chinese classics exaｍ. Some applicants are called upon to take an interview.Successful candidates are notified in March of the same year and are matriculated in April. The official acceptance rates for undergraduate degrees are relatively high, at around 30 per cent, which is due to the policy of restricting the number of students who can sit for the exam based on the grades from the Common Test, to secure the quality of marking. Additionally, Japan's university admission policy does not allow applicants to apply to multiple prestigious national universities, hence non-prospective students tend to switch to other national universities where they are more likely to secure admission. The junior division The matriculation ceremony takes place on 12 April, the foundation day of the university. All freshers are matriculated at the College of Arts and Sciences at Komaba, which is a remnant of the time when the Komaba Campus served as the separate boarding school known as the First Higher School (第一高等学校) until 1949. There, they spend the first one and a half years of their degrees. Students are required to study a foreign language they have never learnt for at least a year, with classes formed based on their choices. Popular languages include Chinese, French, German, Korean, Spanish, and Russian. These classes are meant to be places where students can interact with peers from different backgrounds and forge long-lasting friendships, especially since they spend a considerable amount of time together. There is a tradition where the previous year's class (uekura, 上クラ) invites the juniors to overnight orientation camps (ori gasshuku, オリ合宿) in early April.Freshers typically have 30-40 contact hours per week, although science students often have longer hours due to a larger number of compulsory modules such as linear algebra, advanced calculus, quantum physics, biology, and practicals. Komaba is also the hub of most student societies and unions, with facilities including several tennis, football, and baseball courts, and arenas. For societies that don't involve physical activities, there are also four dedicated buildings that can accommodate about 100 societies, a theatre, and a Japanese-style building. Intense academic competition is common among students in the junior division, as they face matriculation to the senior division (Shingaku Sentaku, 進学選択, or colloquially Shinfuri, 進振り) in September of their second year, where they are assigned to departments based on their grades for the first one and a half years at Komaba. The Department of Information Science, the Faculty of Medicine, and the Department of Sociology are amongst the most selective departments in the Shingaku Sentaku. Student housing Despite its roots as a boarding school, most undergraduates at UTokyo either live with their families at home or in non-university accommodation. Since the closure of the Komaba dormitory (駒場寮, Komaba-ryo) in August 2001, there has been no on-campus accommodation for domestic students at UTokyo. There are four university dormitories available for undergraduate students: Mitaka, Toshima, Oiwake and Mejirodai. In 2021, approximately five per cent of the undergraduate students lived in one of the university dormitories. The university offers more options for international students, with on-campus dormitories available for them at Komaba and Kashiwa. Student newspapers and magazines The Todai Shimbun (東大新聞) is the oldest university newspaper still in operation, with its first issuance in 1920. The editing committee of the newspaper has produced multiple central figures in the country's publishing industry. There are several other newer campus newspapers and magazines, the most notable of which is the Kokasha (恒河沙). The Kokasha's start-of-term issues include evaluations of lecturers by students from the previous year, and are widely read by students in the junior division to decide which modules to take at the beginning of terms. Additionally, there are several other relatively new student magazines, such as the biscUiT, the Todai Shimpo and the Komaba Times. Apart from those, student web media such as the UT-base and the UmeeT are widely read by students. The senior division After completing the Shingaku Sentaku, second-year students matriculate into senior division departments to specialise in their chosen fields. With the exception of the senior division of the College of Arts and Sciences and the Department of Mathematics, which are located in Komaba, all other senior departments are situated in Hongo. Consequently, approximately 85 per cent of the students start a new chapter of their university life there. The Hongo Campus is located closer to the centre of Tokyo, providing access to more restaurants, cafes, and large museums in the vicinity. In addition to these, the campus itself boasts four refectories, eight restaurants, six cafes, five convenience stores, seven kiosks, two bookstores, two barbershops, and an underground gym with two 25-metre pools, making it a comfortable place for students to spend time. While students typically become busier with their studies in the senior division, they are encouraged to take modules from other faculties to develop interdisciplinary perspectives in addition to their major studies. Students in the sciences often begin participating in research activities towards the beginning of their final year under the guidance of their supervisor and submit their thesis in January. Students in the humanities generally follow a similar path but are part of seminars (zemi, ゼミ) rather than laboratories. Graduation ceremonies take place towards the end of March. Approximately one-third of the graduates enter the workforce upon graduation, while the remainder continue their studies at graduate schools within UTokyo or at universities abroad. Popular places of employment for UTokyo graduates include UTokyo itself, governmental ministries, global conglomerates such as Sony and Hitachi, consulting firms such as McKinsey & Company and PwC Consulting, trading companies (商社, shosha) such as Mitsubishi Corp and Mitsui Corp, and investment banks. Organisation UTokyo operates under a central administration system, with policies often determined by the administrative council led by the president. However, due to the university's history as an amalgamation of various institutions, each of the university's constituent colleges, faculties and institutes has its own administrative board. Today, UTokyo is organised into 10 faculties and 15 graduate schools.The leader of UTokyo is known as the president (総長, socho) and it is not a ceremonial role. They are elected every six years by the university's board council from among the faculty members. The current president is Teruo Fujii, a scholar in applied microfluidics, who assumed the role in April 2021 and is expected to serve until March 2027. Faculties and graduate schools At the centre of UTokyo's research and education efforts are 10 faculties and their affiliated graduate schools. This organisational structure, introduced as a result of reforms in the 1990s, aims to maximise the outcomes of education and research by integrating them across undergraduate and graduate levels, rather than maintaining separate focuses for each. In addition to the graduate schools affiliated with specific faculties, UTokyo also includes two independent graduate institutions: the Graduate School of Interdisciplinary Information Studies and the Graduate School of Public Policy (GraSPP). Research institutes Apart from the faculties and graduate schools, UTokyo hosts eleven affiliated research institutes. (附置研究所） These institutes serve as research hubs in their respective fields, aiming to widely disseminate their findings for societal benefit. Simultaneously, they function as educational institutions for the graduate schools. UTokyo Institutes For Advanced Study (UTIAS) UTokyo Institutes For Advanced Study (UTIAS) started in January 2011. Its primary objective is to improve academic excellence and foster an internationalised research environment. There are four UTIAS institutes as of November 2023: UTokyo library system The University of Tokyo Library System consists of three comprehensive libraries located on the main campuses—Hongo, Komaba, and Kashiwa—along with 27 other field-specific libraries operated by various faculties and research institutes. As of 2023, the UTokyo library boasts a collection of over 9.9 million books and numerous materials of historical importance. This extensive collection ranks it as the second-largest library in Japan, surpassed only by the National Diet Library, which holds a collection of approximately 46.8 million books. It also subscribes to about 170,000 journals, contributing to research activities throughout the university. The headquarters of the library is situated in the General Library at Hongo, which underwent thorough renovation in the late 2010s. It now features a 46-metre-deep automated storage capable of housing approximately 3 million books. Museums UTokyo operates eight museums, three of which fall under the purview of the University Museum (UMUT) (東京大学総合研究博物館, Tōkyō daigaku sōgō kenkyū hakubutsukan). These museums play a crucial role in sharing significant findings from the university's research activities and showcasing its valuable collections with the public. They are also responsible for the preservation and maintenance of these collections. Apart from the aforementioned museums, UTokyo operates several other public facilities, the most notable of which are two botanical gardens managed by the Faculty of Science: Koishikawa and Nikko. These gardens, renowned for their diverse botanical collections and historical significance, offer unique educational and recreational opportunities for visitors and researchers. Notable research Since its foundation in 1877 as a modern university, UTokyo has conducted numerous research projects across various fields, achieving notable outcomes. Below are some widely-recognised research endeavours conducted by individuals affiliated with UTokyo at the time of their research. In 1904, Hantaro Nagaoka, an alumnus and professor in the Department of Physics, devised the Saturnian model of the atom. Contrasting with J. J. Thomson's then-popular plum pudding model, Nagaoka's model proposed an atomic structure with a heavy nucleus at the centre and electrons revolving around it. Although this model assumed a far larger nucleus than in reality, it inspired Ernest Rutherford's Rutherford model. Teiji Takagi, an alumnus and professor of the Department of Mathematics, proved the Takagi existence theorem in the 1910s. Alongside significant contributions to algebraic number theory, he also introduced the Blancmange curve, a well-known example of a self-affine curve. In 1951, Kiyoshi Ito, as a doctoral student in the Department of Mathematics, pioneered the theory of stochastic integration and stochastic differential equations, now known as Itô calculus. This theory is best known for its application in mathematical finance, namely in the Black–Scholes equation for option values. On 23 February 1987, the Kamioka Nucleon Decay Experiment observatory, part of the Department of Physics, detected cosmic neutrinos for the first time in human history. This discovery significantly contributed to proving that the sun's energy is generated from hydrogen atoms combining into helium(proton-proton reaction chain). Masatoshi Koshiba, leader of this research group, was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2002. In 1998, an expanded version of this neutrino observatory detected neutrino oscillation, demonstrating that the 'lepton flavour' of neutrinos changes. This discovery, proving that neutrinos have mass, led to Takaaki Kajita receiving the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2015. Academic rankings and reputation UTokyo is considered to be the most selective and prestigious university in Japan and is counted as one of the best universities in the world. Times Higher Education World University Rankings ranked UTokyo 29th in the world in 2023. QS World University Rankings ranked UTokyo 28th in the world in 2023. The Times Higher Education World Reputation Rankings 2022 ranked UTokyo 10th in the world (2nd in Asia). Nature Index ranked UTokyo 6th in 2015 and 8th in 2017 in its Annual Tables, which measure the largest contributors to papers published in world's 82 leading journals. In the Nature Index Annual Tables 2021, UTokyo was ranked 8th based on 1,308 Natural science research treatises published by the university. In the field of physical science treatises, it ranked second in the world among universities.In 2019, The University of Tokyo ranked 24th among the universities around the world by SCImago Institutions Rankings. In 2017, Times Higer Education's Alma Mater Index ranked UTokyo 16th in the world. This index ranked universities according to how many qualifications they have awarded to chief executives of companies that appear in Fortune magazine’s Fortune Global 500.In 2023, Newsweek recognised the UTokyo Hospital as the 17th best hospital in the world (2nd in Asia after Singapore General Hospital, 1st in Japan). Sites Hongo campus The main Hongo campus occupies the former estate of the Maeda family, Edo period feudal lords of Kaga Province. One of the university's best known landmarks, Akamon (the Red Gate), is a relic of this era. The symbol of the university is the ginkgo leaf, from the trees found throughout the area. The Hongo campus also hosts UTokyo's annual May Festival. Komaba Campus The Komaba Campus, serving as the educational hub for the first two years of undergraduate studies, provides general education to around 6,000 first and second year students. The campus, also home to the Graduate Schools of Arts, Sciences, and Mathematical Sciences, boasts advanced research facilities. As a recognised center of excellence, it supports about 450 senior division students in the College of Arts and Sciences and 1,400 graduate students across various disciplines. Kashiwa Campus The Kashiwa Campus specialises in postgraduate education and research. It houses the Graduate School of Frontier Sciences along with advanced research institutes such as the Institute for Cosmic Ray Research, the Institute for Solid State Physics, the Kavli Institute for the Physics and Mathematics of the Universe, and the Atmosphere and Ocean Research Institute, equipped with extensive facilities and services. Shirokanedai Campus The relatively small Shirokanedai Campus hosts the Institute of Medical Science of the University of Tokyo (IMSUT), which is entirely dedicated to postgraduate studies. The campus is focused on genome research, including among its facilities the Human Genome Center (HGC), which have at its disposal the largest supercomputer in the field. Other sites Notable people Nobel laureates Other notable people See also Earthquake engineering Imperial College of Engineering International Journal of Asian Studies – published in association with the Institute for Advanced Studies on Asia, University of Tokyo Kikuchi Dairoku Koishikawa Botanical Gardens Nikko Botanical Garden The University of Tokyo Library The University Museum, The University of Tokyo References Further reading Kato, Mariko, Todai still beckons nation's best, brightest but goals diversifying, Japan Times, August 11, 2009, p. 3. Kersten, Rikki. The intellectual culture of postwar Japan and the 1968–1969 University of Tokyo Struggles: Repositioning the self in postwar thought. Social Science Japan Journal 12.2 (2009): 227–245. Marshall, Byron K. Academic Freedom and the Japanese Imperial University, 1868–1939 (University of California Press, 1992). Takashi, Tachibana, and Richard H. Minear. Tokyo University and the War (2017), on world war II; online. External links Media related to University of Tokyo at Wikimedia Commons University of Tokyo The University of Copenhagen (Danish: Københavns Universitet, abbr. KU) is a public research university in Copenhagen, Denmark. Founded in 1479, the University of Copenhagen is the second-oldest university in Scandinavia after Uppsala University. The University of Copenhagen consists of six different faculties, with teaching taking place in its four distinct campuses, all situated in Copenhagen. The university operates 36 different departments and 122 separate research centres in Copenhagen, as well as a number of museums and botanical gardens in and outside the Danish capital. The University of Copenhagen also owns and operates multiple research stations around Denmark, with two additional ones located in Greenland. Additionally, The Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences and the public hospitals of the Capital and Zealand Region of Denmark constitute the conglomerate Copenhagen University Hospital.As of October 2022, 10 Nobel laureates and 1 Turing Award laureate have been affiliated with the University of Copenhagen as students, alumni or faculty. Alumni include one president of the United Nations General Assembly and at least 24 prime ministers of Denmark. History The University of Copenhagen was founded on 1 June 1479 and is the oldest university in Denmark. In 1475, Christian I of Denmark received a papal bull from Pope Sixtus IV with permission to establish a university in Denmark. The bull was issued on 19 June 1475 as a result of the visit to Rome by Christian I's wife, Dorothea of Brandenburg, Queen of Denmark.On 4 October 1478 Christian I of Denmark issued a royal decree by which he officially established the University of Copenhagen. In this decree, Christian I set down the rules and laws governing the university. The royal decree elected magistar Peder Albertsen as vice chancellor of the university, and the task was his to employ various learned scholars at the new university and thereby establish its first four faculties: theology, law, medicine and philosophy. The royal decree made the University of Copenhagen enjoy royal patronage from its very beginning. Furthermore, the university was explicitly established as an autonomous institution, giving it a great degree of juridical freedom. As such, the University of Copenhagen was to be administered without royal interference, and it was not subject to the usual laws governing the Danish people.The University of Copenhagen was dissolved in about 1531 as a result of the spread of Protestantism. It was re-established in 1537 by King Christian III after the Lutheran Reformation. The king charged Johannes Bugenhagen, who came from Wittenberg to Copenhagen to take up a chair of theology, with the drawing up of a new University Charter. The resulting Charter was issued in 1539. Between 1675 and 1788, the university introduced the concept of degree examinations. An examination for theology was added in 1675, followed by law in 1736. By 1788, all faculties required an examination before they would issue a degree. In 1807, the British Bombardment of Copenhagen destroyed most of the university's buildings. By 1836, however, the new main building of the university was inaugurated amid extensive building that continued until the end of the century. The University Library (now a part of the Royal Library), the Zoological Museum, the Geological Museum, the Botanic Garden with greenhouses, and the Technical College were also established during this period. Between 1842 and 1850, the faculties at the university were restructured. Starting in 1842, the University Faculty of Medicine and the Academy of Surgeons merged to form the Faculty of Medical Science, while in 1848 the Faculty of Law was reorganised and became the Faculty of Jurisprudence and Political Science. In 1850, the Faculty of Mathematics and Science was separated from the Faculty of Philosophy. In 1845 and 1862 Copenhagen co-hosted Nordic student meetings with Lund University. The first female student was enrolled at the university in 1877. The university underwent explosive growth between 1960 and 1980. The number of students rose from around 6,000 in 1960 to about 26,000 in 1980, with a correspondingly large growth in the number of employees. Buildings built during this time period include the new Zoological Museum, the Hans Christian Ørsted and August Krogh Institutes, the campus centre on Amager Island, and the Panum Institute. The new university statute instituted in 1970 involved democratisation of the management of the university. It was modified in 1973 and subsequently applied to all higher education institutions in Denmark. The democratisation was later reversed with the 2003 university reforms. Further change in the structure of the university from 1990 to 1993 made a Bachelor's degree programme mandatory in virtually all subjects. Also in 1993, the law departments broke off from the Faculty of Social Sciences to form a separate Faculty of Law. In 1994, the University of Copenhagen designated environmental studies, north–south relations, and biotechnology as areas of special priority according to its new long-term plan. Starting in 1996 and continuing to the present, the university planned new buildings, including for the University of Copenhagen Faculty of Humanities at Amager (Ørestaden), along with a Biotechnology Centre. By 1999, the student population had grown to exceed 35,000, resulting in the university appointing additional professors and other personnel. In 2003, the revised Danish university law removed faculty, staff and students from the university decision process, creating a top-down control structure that has been described as absolute monarchy, since leaders are granted extensive powers while being appointed exclusively by higher levels in the organization.In 2005, the Center for Health and Society (Center for Sundhed og Samfund – CSS) opened in central Copenhagen, housing the Faculty of Social Sciences and Institute of Public Health, which until then had been located in various places throughout the city. In May 2006, the university announced further plans to leave many of its old buildings in the inner city of Copenhagen, an area that has been home to the university for more than 500 years. The purpose of this has been to gather the university's many departments and faculties on three larger campuses in order to create a bigger, more concentrated and modern student environment with better teaching facilities, as well as to save money on rent and maintenance of the old buildings. The concentration of facilities on larger campuses also allows for more inter-disciplinary cooperation; for example, the Departments of Political Science and Sociology are now located in the same facilities at CSS and can pool resources more easily. In January 2007, the University of Copenhagen merged with the Royal Veterinary and Agricultural University and the Danish University of Pharmaceutical Science. The two universities were converted into faculties under the University of Copenhagen, and were renamed as the Faculty of Life Sciences and the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences. In January 2012, the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences and the veterinary third of the Faculty of Life Sciences merged with the Faculty of Health Sciences forming the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences – and the other two thirds of the Faculty of Life Sciences were merged into the Faculty of Science. Campuses The university has four main campus areas that are located in the Capital Region (three in Copenhagen and one in Frederiksberg): North Campus – home to most of the Faculty of Science and the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences. City Campus – home to the Faculty of Social Sciences and Central Administration as well as parts of the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences and the Faculty of Science. South Campus – houses the Faculty of Humanities, the Faculty of Law, the Faculty of Theology, and a small proportion of the Faculty of Science. Frederiksberg Campus – home to sections of the Faculty of Science and the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences.The Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences and the Faculty of Science also use the Taastrup Campus, which is located in Taastrup on the western outskirts of Copenhagen. The Faculty of Science also has facilities in Helsingør, Hørsholm and Nødebo. Organisation and administration The university is governed by a board consisting of 11 members: 6 members recruited outside the university form the majority of the board, 2 members are appointed by the scientific staff, 1 member is appointed by the administrative staff, and 2 members are appointed by the university students. The rector, the prorector and the director of the university are appointed by the university board. The rector in turn appoints directors of the different parts of the central administration and deans of the different faculties. The deans appoint heads of 50 departments. There is no faculty senate and faculty is not involved in the appointment of rector, deans, or department heads. Hence the university has no faculty governance, although there are elected Academic Boards at faculty level who advise the deans. As of 2018, the governing body manages an annual budget of about DKK 8.9 billion.The university is organized into six faculties and about 100 departments and research centres. The university employs about 5,600 academic staff and 4,400 technical and administrative staff. The six faculties are: Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences Faculty of Humanities Faculty of Law Faculty of Science Faculty of Social Sciences Faculty of TheologyThe total number of enrolled students is about 40,000, including about 23,000 undergraduate students and 17,000 graduate students. The university has an international graduate talent programme which provides grants for international Ph.D., students and a tenure track carrier system. It operates about fifty master's programmes taught in English, and has arranged about 150 exchange agreements with other institutions and 800 Erasmus agreements. Each year there are about 1,700 incoming exchange students, 2,000 outbound exchange students and 4,000 international degree-seeking students. About 3,000 PhD students study there each year. University housing Most university students stay in privately owned dormitories (kollegier in Danish) or apartments in Copenhagen. There are five dormitories that are partially administered by the university; however, only students who have passed at least two years of studies are considered for admission. These are normally referred to as the old dormitories, and they consist of: Regensen, Elers' Kollegium, Borchs Kollegium, Hassagers Kollegium, and Valkendorfs Kollegium. The University of Copenhagen also offers Carlsberg Foundation researcher apartments for a duration of 6 months to 3 years for visiting research and academic research staff who affiliated with research projects funded by the Carlsberg Foundation. The Housing Foundation Copenhagen is a separate commercial entity to the University of Copenhagen run by Chairman Erik Bisgaard Madsen and a board of directors. The Housing Foundation Copenhagen provides short-term housing exclusively for university international students ( sometimes Danish students), university staff and guest researchers. Their central office is based at South Campus. The Housing Foundation Copenhagen has received considerable criticism for the exploitation of international students for business profits and poor living conditions, and most recently the refusal of shortening contracts for many international students affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Seal The university's oldest known seal dates from a 1531 letter, it depicts Saint Peter with a key and a book. In a circle around him is the text When the university was re-established by Christian III in 1537 after the Protestant Reformation, it received a new seal, showing king Christian III with crown, sceptre, and globus cruciger above a crowned coat of arms vertically divided between halved versions of the coat of arms of Denmark (to the viewer's left, dexter) and the coat of arms of Norway (to the viever's right, sinister). The text is The 1537 seal is very similar to the current seal, which was made in 2000 and is shown at the top of this page. The text is different and the crowned shield shows the coat of arms of Denmark (as has been the case since 1820, when the heraldic reference to Norway was removed). The text is In addition to the university seal, each of the university's six faculties carry seals of their own. International reputation The 2021 CWTS Leiden Ranking ranks the University of Copenhagen as the best university in Denmark and best in Continental Europe, 4th in Europe (after Oxford, UCL and Cambridge) and 27th in the world.The 2021 Academic Ranking of World Universities published by Shanghai Jiao Tong University ranked the University of Copenhagen as the best university in Denmark and Scandinavia, 7th in Europe and 30th in the world. In the Times Higher Education World University Rankings for 2021, the University of Copenhagen is ranked first in Denmark and 84th in the world. In the 2021 QS World University Rankings list, the University of Copenhagen is ranked first in Denmark and 76th in the world. In the 2021 U.S. News & World Report's Best Global Universities Rankings list, the University of Copenhagen is ranked first in Denmark and 34th in the world. Cooperative agreements with other universities The university cooperates with universities around the world. In January 2006, the University of Copenhagen entered into a partnership of ten top universities, along with the: Australian National University, ETH Zürich, National University of Singapore, Peking University, University of California, University of Cambridge, University of Oxford, University of Tokyo and Yale University. The partnership is referred to as the International Alliance of Research Universities (IARU). The Department of Scandinavian Studies and Linguistics at University of Copenhagen signed a cooperation agreement with the Danish Royal School of Library and Information Science in 2009.The university hosts the annual Aging Research and Drug Discovery conference in cooperation with Columbia University. List of rectors Henrik Caspar Wegener (2017–present). He is the 259th rector. List of directors of the Royal Academy Schools Notable alumni Over the course of its history, a sizeable number of University of Copenhagen alumni have become notable in their fields, both academic, and in the wider world.Tycho Brahe (1546–1601), Danish astronomer, first scientific documentation of supernovas, mentor of Johannes Kepler Thomas Fincke (1561–1656), Danish mathematician and physicist Caspar Bartholin (1585–1629), professor in medicine and theology. Author of textbooks on anatomy and the discoverer of the workings of the olfactory nerve. Olaus Wormius (1588–1655), Danish physician and antiquarian Thomas Bartholin (1616–1680), discoverer of the lymphatic system Rasmus Bartholin (1625–1698), professor in geometry and medicine. He discovered birefringence, but was unable to give a scientific explanation. Thomas Hansen Kingo (1634–1703), Danish bishop and poet Nicholas Steno (1638–1696), a pioneer in anatomy and geology Ole Rømer (1644–1710), Danish astronomer. He made the first quantitative measurements of the speed of light. Peder Horrebow (1679–1764), Danish astronomer and member of Académie des Sciences Ludvig Holberg (1684–1754), Danish-Norwegian writer and playwright Morten Thrane Brunnich (1737–1827), Danish zoologist Caspar Wessel (1745–1818), mathematician Martin Vahl (1749–1804), Danish-Norwegian botanist and zoologist Hans Christian Ørsted (1777–1851), Danish physicist and chemist. He discovered electromagnetism. Anders Sandøe Ørsted (1778–1860), Danish lawyer and prime minister of Denmark (1853–1854) Adam Gottlob Oehlenschläger (1779–1850), poet, author of lyrics of the Danish national anthem Der er et yndigt land N. F. S. Grundtvig (1783–1872), Danish writer, poet, philosopher and priest Christopher Hansteen (1784–1873), Norwegian astronomer and physicist Johan Ludvig Heiberg (1791–1860), Danish poet and critic Magnús Eiríksson (1806–1881), Icelandic theologian Søren Kierkegaard (1813–1855), Danish theologian and philosopher, the father of existentialism Anders Sandøe Ørsted (1816–1872), professor of botany (1851–1862) Hinrich Johannes Rink (1819–1893), Danish geologist, and founder of the first Greenlandic language newspaper Peter Ludvig Panum (1820–1885), Danish physiologist and pathologist; the Panum Building in Copenhagen is named in his honor. Hans Schjellerup (1827–1887), Danish astronomer Carl Lange (1834–1900), Danish physician Thorvald N. Thiele (1838–1910), Danish astronomer, actuary and mathematician Julius Petersen (1839–1910), Danish mathematician Eugenius Warming (1841–1924), Danish botanist and founding figure of ecology Georg Brandes (1842–1927), Danish writer and critic Vilhelm Thomsen (1842–1927), Danish linguist Harald Høffding (1843–1931), Danish philosopher, theologian and psychologist Herman Trier (1845–1925), Danish educator and politician Hans Christian Gram (1853–1938), Danish bacteriologist, inventor of Gram staining Christian Bohr (1855–1911), Danish physician, who described Bohr effect Wilhelm Johannsen (1857–1927), Danish botanist. He first coined the word gene in its modern usage. Niels Ryberg Finsen (1860–1904), Nobel laureate in medicine (1903) Otto Jespersen (1860–1943), Danish linguist, co-founder of the International Phonetic Association Kirstine Meyer (1861–1941), Danish physicist Hannes Hafstein (1861–1922), Icelandic politician and poet Johannes Andreas Grib Fibiger (1867–1928), Nobel laureate in medicine (1926) Holger Pedersen (1867–1953), Danish linguist Agner Krarup Erlang (1878-1929), creator of the field of telephone networks analysis S. P. L. Sørensen (1868–1939), Danish chemist, who introduced the concept of pH Martin Knudsen (1871–1949), Danish physicist August Krogh (1874–1949), Nobel laureate in medicine (1920) Holger Scheuermann (1877–1960), Danish surgeon after whom Scheuermann's disease is named Kirstine Smith (1878–1939), Danish statistician credited with creation of optimal design of experiments Benjamin Christensen (1879–1959), Danish film director, screenwriter and actor Ingeborg Hammer-Jensen (1880–1955), classical scholar and philologist Niels Bohr (1885–1962). He contributed to development of the atomic model and quantum mechanics. Director at the university's Institute of Theoretical Physics. Nobel laureate in physics (1922). Øjvind Winge (1886–1964), Danish biologist Harald Bohr (1887–1951), Danish Olympic silver medalist football player and mathematician; brother of Niels Bohr Inge Lehmann (1888–1993), Danish seismologist discovering the Earth's inner core Jakob Nielsen (1890–1959), Danish mathematician Julie Vinter Hansen (1890–1960), Danish astronomer Oskar Klein (1894–1977), Swedish theoretical physicist Henrik Dam (1895–1976), Nobel laureate in medicine (1943) Sir Ove Arup (1896–1988), Anglo-Danish structural engineer Alf Ross (1899–1979), Danish legal philosopher Louis Hjelmslev (1899–1965), Danish linguist, founder of Copenhagen School Anton Frederik Bruun (1901–1961), Danish oceanographer Georg Rasch (1901–1980), Danish mathematician, statistician and psychometrician Knud Ejler Løgstrup (1905–1981), Danish philosopher and theologian. Pastor at Sandager-Holevad 1936–1943. Professor at University of Aarhus 1943–1975. Piet Hein (1905–1996), Danish mathematician, inventor and poet Bengt Strömgren (1908–1987), Danish astronomer and astrophysicist Hilde Levi (1909–2003), German-Danish physicist Niels Kaj Jerne (1911–1994), Nobel laureate in medicine (1984) Preben von Magnus (1912–1973), Danish virologist, who gave name to the Von Magnus phenomenon Jens Otto Krag (1914–1978), prime minister of Denmark (1962–1968, 1971–1972) Poul Hartling (1914–2000), prime minister of Denmark (1973–1975) and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (1978–1985), Nobel Peace Prize laureate on behalf of UNHCR (1981) Bjørn Aage Ibsen (1915–2007), Anesthetist and founder of intensive-care medicine Poul Bjørndahl Astrup (1915–2000), Danish clinical chemist, inventor of blood gas analyzer Jens Christian Skou (born 1918), Nobel laureate in chemistry (1997) for his discovery of Na+,K+-ATPase Hans H. Ørberg (1920–2010), linguist and scholar Aage Bohr (1922–2009), professor in nuclear physics and director of the Niels Bohr Institute at the university. Nobel laureate in physics (1975). Halfdan T. Mahler (1923–2016), Director-General of World Health Organization (1973–1988) Ólafía Einarsdóttir (1924–2017), first person from Iceland to earn a degree in archaeology Ben Roy Mottelson (1926–2022), American-born Danish nuclear physicist, Nobel laureate in physics (1975) Peter Naur (1928–2016), computer scientist, Turing Award in 2005 Poul Schlüter (1929–2021), prime minister of Denmark (1982–1993) Vigdís Finnbogadóttir (born 1930), the 4th President of Iceland (1980–1996) Ozer Schild (1930–2006), Danish-born Israeli academic, president of the University of Haifa and president of the College of Judea and Samaria (Ariel College) Jørgen Rischel (1934–2007), Danish linguist, who analyzed Greenlandic and Mon-Khmer languages Per Kirkeby (born 1938), Danish painter and sculptor Per Pinstrup-Andersen (born 1939), Danish economist, 2001 World Food Prize laureate Søren Johansen (born 1939), Danish econometrician Lasse Hessel (born 1940), inventor of female condom Anders Boserup (1940–1990), co-founder of the Danish Institute for Peace and Conflict Research and the Nordic Peace Foundation Aage B. Sørensen (1941–2001), Danish sociologist Holger Bech Nielsen (born 1941), Danish physicist, one of three creators of string theory Jørgen Haugan (born 1941), Doctorate in Philosophy (1977); Norwegian author and lecturer Poul Nyrup Rasmussen (born 1943), prime minister of Denmark (1993–2001) Claus Bjørn (1944–2005), author, historian and broadcaster Niels Peter Lemche (born 1945), biblical scholar, founder of Copenhagen School Mogens Lykketoft (born 1946), Danish politician, the 70th President of the United Nations General Assembly (2015–2016) Halldór Ásgrímsson (born 1947), prime minister of Iceland (2004–2006) Uffe Haagerup (born 1949), Danish mathematician Jesper Nygart (born 1956), Danish physician Peter Høeg (born 1957), Danish fiction writer. He won international acclaim with Smilla's Sense of Snow. Morten Frost (born 1958), Danish world-class badminton player and coach Mads Tofte (born 1959), computer scientist, vice chancellor of IT University of Copenhagen Ole Wæver (born 1960), scholar of International Relations, one of exponents of Copenhagen School Steve Scully (born 1960), American host, senior producer, and political editor of the C-SPAN network's Washington Journal. He studied at the University of Copenhagen as part of his master's program at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois. Corinna Cortes (born 1961), computer scientist Lars Løkke Rasmussen (born 1964), prime minister of Denmark (2009–2011, 2015–2019) Lars Mikkelsen (born 1964), Danish actor Bjørn Lomborg (born 1965), Danish economist, author of The Skeptical Environmentalist Helle Thorning-Schmidt (born 1966), prime minister of Denmark (2011–2015) Marie-Louise Nosch (born 1970), archaeologist; Professor in the university's Saxo Institute Eskild Ebbesen (born 1972), Danish world-class lightweight rower Morten Meldal (born 1954), Nobel laureate in chemistry (2022) for his invention of Click chemistry See also Copenhagen School Copenhagen (play) The University of Copenhagen Symphony Orchestra List of Nobel laureates associated with the University of Copenhagen List of universities and colleges in Denmark List of medieval universities Open access in Denmark References External links Scholars and Literati at the University of Copenhagen (1475–1800), Repertorium Eruditorum Totius Europae – RETE Official website (in Danish) Official website Student body size as of October 1 2007 (in Danish). Archived from the original on 24 July 2012. Retrieved 26 June 2011. Bahria University (BU; Urdu: جامعہ بحریہ) is a public-sector university established in 2000 by the Pakistan Navy at Shangrilla Road, Sector E-8/1 in Islamabad, Pakistan. The university maintains campuses in Karachi, Islamabad and Lahore. Established by the Pakistan Navy in 2000, its status is semi-government. It offers programs in undergraduate, post-graduate, and doctoral studies. Its research is directed towards the development of engineering, philosophy, natural, social, and medical sciences. Bahria is a comprehensive university having multidisciplinary programs that include Health Sciences, Engineering Sciences, Computer Sciences, Management Sciences, Social Sciences, Law, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Psychology and Maritime Studies. The university is one of the more renowned institutions of higher learning in the country and ranks 23rd in among the country's top thirty and most notable universities in the general category by the HEC, as of 2016. The university is a member of the Association of Commonwealth Universities of the United Kingdom.The university research institutes offer scientific research in the development of medical, environmental, natural sciences as well as in engineering and philosophy. Bahria University is a founder member of the Education Futures Collaboration charity, an international network of educators working on strategies to bridge the research/practise/policy-making divide. History Bahria University has its genesis in Bahria Colleges and Bahria Institutes of Management and Computer Sciences which were established by the Pakistan Navy in the 1980s and 1990s in Islamabad and Karachi. These institutes and colleges were affiliated with Peshawar University to conduct bachelor and master's degree programs in the disciplines of business management and computer sciences.The university offers bachelor and higher degree programs. It produces professionals in areas like electronics and telecommunication, electrical, computer sciences, software engineering, media studies, business management, earth and environmental sciences, medical and health sciences, professional psychology, social sciences and law. The growth and policies of the university are governed by its board of governors, comprising senior naval officers and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan. The chief of the naval staff is the chairman of the board of governors as well as pro-chancellor of the university. Campuses The university has campuses in Islamabad, Karachi and Lahore. The headquarters of the university is in Islamabad, consisting of three blocks (OC, NC and XC) including a girls hostel. A new building has been constructed for business students. Furthermore, the headquarters consists of a business incubation center, auditorium, gymnasium, and several cafeterias throughout the campus. Bahria University Islamabad Campus (Headquarter) Bahria University Karachi Campus Bahria University Lahore Campus Institute of Professional Psychology, Karachi National Center for Maritime Policy Research, Karachi Bahria University Medical & Dental College, Karachi Affiliated colleges Bahria University is the awarding body for the following affiliated institutions: Shifa College of Medicine, Islamabad Shifa College of Nursing, Islamabad Frontier Medical College, Abbottabad Islamabad Medical and Dental College, Islamabad Yusra Medical & Dental College, Islamabad Institute of Teachers Education, Rawalpindi Rawal Institute of Health Sciences Islamabad Bahria University Medical and Dental College, Karachi International linkages Bahria University has signed Memorandum of understanding with the following 21 international universities: Degrees offered Bahria University offers the following undergraduate and postgraduate degrees at its constituent units: The standard of education is comparable to many European and American universities. Sports The university helps its students to participate in national and university level sports. The Bahria University Islamabad Campus has a large gymnasium to facilitate sporting events such as basketball matches. There is also a separate fitness gym for males and females to train at their own times. These gyms include treadmills, weight lifting machines, etc to facilitate the students. Societies Bahria University has student-driven societies, clubs and associations that work under the tutelage of the student affairs office. Societies and clubs at BU include: Bahria Association of Computer Sciences and Professionals (BACSAP) Bahria University Law Society (BULS) Bahria University Law Moot Society (BULMS) Bahria Youth Technothon (BYTE) Bahria Community Support Program (CSP) Media Club (Saad Tehsin) Arts & Dramatics Club The Music Society The Events Club The Literature & Debates Club IEEE BUIC Society Of Empowerment (SOE) BUKC Bahria Visionary Club (BVC) Notable alumni Hasan Raheem, singer-songwriter Umair Jaswal, singer Yashma Gill, actor Rafay Baloch, IT hacker and security researcher Masuma Anwar, Doctor by profession and a singer Sana Mahmud, Athlete. Rectors Shahid Iqbal, (2012-2015) Tanveer Faiz, (2015-2018) Kaleem Shaukat, (2019–2022) See also Higher Education Commission of Pakistan Pakistan Engineering Council Pakistan Medical Commission National Business Education Accreditation Council National Computing Education Accreditation Council Pakistan Bar Council References External links Bahria University – Headquarters In Maharashtra, there is one central university, twenty three state universities and twenty-one deemed universities. Universities Central University Mahatma Gandhi Antarrashtriya Hindi Vishwavidyalaya, Wardha. State Universities † granted university / State university status | National Law Universities Deemed Universities Private Universities Private universities are approved by the UGC. They can grant degrees but they are not allowed to have off-campus affiliated colleges. Universal Ai University, Karjat Central Government Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology, Aurangabad Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay Indian Institute of Information Technology, Nagpur Indian Institute of Information Technology, Pune Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune National Fire Service College, Nagpur National Institute of Electronics & Information Technology, Aurangabad National Institute of Industrial Engineering, Mumbai National Power Training Institute, Nagpur Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, Nagpur Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology, Chandrapur Government of Maharashtra University managed Deemed University (State funded) Medical Central government All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur State government Agriculture Central Institute of Cotton Research, Nagpur National Research Centre for Citrus, Nagpur Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth, AkolaVasantrao naik marathwada agriculture university Armed force academies Sainik School Sainik School, Satara Sainik School , Chandrapur Tri-service Institutes National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla Indian Army Army Institute of Technology College of Military Engineering, Pune Defence Institute of Advanced Technology Medical Personnel Armed Forces Medical College Other institutions National School of Leadership See also List of institutions of higher education in Goa Structural engineering is a sub-discipline of civil engineering in which structural engineers are trained to design the 'bones and joints' that create the form and shape of human-made structures. Structural engineers also must understand and calculate the stability, strength, rigidity and earthquake-susceptibility of built structures for buildings and nonbuilding structures. The structural designs are integrated with those of other designers such as architects and building services engineer and often supervise the construction of projects by contractors on site. They can also be involved in the design of machinery, medical equipment, and vehicles where structural integrity affects functioning and safety. See glossary of structural engineering. Structural engineering theory is based upon applied physical laws and empirical knowledge of the structural performance of different materials and geometries. Structural engineering design uses a number of relatively simple structural concepts to build complex structural systems. Structural engineers are responsible for making creative and efficient use of funds, structural elements and materials to achieve these goals. History Structural engineering dates back to 2700 B.C. when the step pyramid for Pharaoh Djoser was built by Imhotep, the first engineer in history known by name. Pyramids were the most common major structures built by ancient civilizations because the structural form of a pyramid is inherently stable and can be almost infinitely scaled (as opposed to most other structural forms, which cannot be linearly increased in size in proportion to increased loads).The structural stability of the pyramid, whilst primarily gained from its shape, relies also on the strength of the stone from which it is constructed, and its ability to support the weight of the stone above it. The limestone blocks were often taken from a quarry near the building site and have a compressive strength from 30 to 250 MPa (MPa = Pa × 106). Therefore, the structural strength of the pyramid stems from the material properties of the stones from which it was built rather than the pyramid's geometry. Throughout ancient and medieval history most architectural design and construction were carried out by artisans, such as stonemasons and carpenters, rising to the role of master builder. No theory of structures existed, and understanding of how structures stood up was extremely limited, and based almost entirely on empirical evidence of 'what had worked before' and intuition. Knowledge was retained by guilds and seldom supplanted by advances. Structures were repetitive, and increases in scale were incremental.No record exists of the first calculations of the strength of structural members or the behavior of structural material, but the profession of a structural engineer only really took shape with the Industrial Revolution and the re-invention of concrete (see History of Concrete). The physical sciences underlying structural engineering began to be understood in the Renaissance and have since developed into computer-based applications pioneered in the 1970s. Timeline 1452–1519 Leonardo da Vinci made many contributions. 1638: Galileo Galilei published the book Two New Sciences in which he examined the failure of simple structures. 1660: Hooke's law by Robert Hooke. 1687: Isaac Newton published Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica, which contains his laws of motion. 1750: Euler–Bernoulli beam equation. 1700–1782: Daniel Bernoulli introduced the principle of virtual work. 1707–1783: Leonhard Euler developed the theory of buckling of columns. 1826: Claude-Louis Navier published a treatise on the elastic behaviors of structures. 1873: Carlo Alberto Castigliano presented his dissertation Intorno ai sistemi elastici, which contains his theorem for computing displacement as the partial derivative of the strain energy. This theorem includes the method of least work as a special case. 1874: Otto Mohr formalized the idea of a statically indeterminate structure. 1922: Timoshenko corrects the Euler–Bernoulli beam equation. 1936: Hardy Cross' publication of the moment distribution method, an important innovation in the design of continuous frames. 1941: Alexander Hrennikoff solved the discretization of plane elasticity problems using a lattice framework. 1942: Richard Courant divided a domain into finite subregions. 1956: J. Turner, R. W. Clough, H. C. Martin, and L. J. Topp's paper on the Stiffness and Deflection of Complex Structures introduces the name finite-element method and is widely recognized as the first comprehensive treatment of the method as it is known today. Structural failure The history of structural engineering contains many collapses and failures. Sometimes this is due to obvious negligence, as in the case of the Pétion-Ville school collapse, in which Rev. Fortin Augustin  constructed the building all by himself, saying he didn't need an engineer as he had good knowledge of construction following a partial collapse of the three-story schoolhouse that sent neighbors fleeing. The final collapse killed 94 people, mostly children. In other cases structural failures require careful study, and the results of these inquiries have resulted in improved practices and a greater understanding of the science of structural engineering. Some such studies are the result of forensic engineering investigations where the original engineer seems to have done everything in accordance with the state of the profession and acceptable practice yet a failure still eventuated. A famous case of structural knowledge and practice being advanced in this manner can be found in a series of failures involving box girders which collapsed in Australia during the 1970s. Theory Structural engineering depends upon a detailed knowledge of applied mechanics, materials science, and applied mathematics to understand and predict how structures support and resist self-weight and imposed loads. To apply the knowledge successfully a structural engineer generally requires detailed knowledge of relevant empirical and theoretical design codes, the techniques of structural analysis, as well as some knowledge of the corrosion resistance of the materials and structures, especially when those structures are exposed to the external environment. Since the 1990s, specialist software has become available to aid in the design of structures, with the functionality to assist in the drawing, analyzing and designing of structures with maximum precision; examples include AutoCAD, StaadPro, ETABS, Prokon, Revit Structure, Inducta RCB, etc. Such software may also take into consideration environmental loads, such as earthquakes and winds. Profession Structural engineers are responsible for engineering design and structural analysis. Entry-level structural engineers may design the individual structural elements of a structure, such as the beams and columns of a building. More experienced engineers may be responsible for the structural design and integrity of an entire system, such as a building. Structural engineers often specialize in particular types of structures, such as buildings, bridges, pipelines, industrial, tunnels, vehicles, ships, aircraft, and spacecraft. Structural engineers who specialize in buildings often specialize in particular construction materials such as concrete, steel, wood, masonry, alloys, and composites, and may focus on particular types of buildings such as offices, schools, hospitals, residential, and so forth. Structural engineering has existed since humans first started to construct their structures. It became a more defined and formalized profession with the emergence of architecture as a distinct profession from engineering during the industrial revolution in the late 19th century. Until then, the architect and the structural engineer were usually one and the same thing – the master builder. Only with the development of specialized knowledge of structural theories that emerged during the 19th and early 20th centuries, did the professional structural engineers come into existence. The role of a structural engineer today involves a significant understanding of both static and dynamic loading and the structures that are available to resist them. The complexity of modern structures often requires a great deal of creativity from the engineer in order to ensure the structures support and resist the loads they are subjected to. A structural engineer will typically have a four or five-year undergraduate degree, followed by a minimum of three years of professional practice before being considered fully qualified. Structural engineers are licensed or accredited by different learned societies and regulatory bodies around the world (for example, the Institution of Structural Engineers in the UK). Depending on the degree course they have studied and/or the jurisdiction they are seeking licensure in, they may be accredited (or licensed) as just structural engineers, or as civil engineers, or as both civil and structural engineers. Another international organisation is IABSE(International Association for Bridge and Structural Engineering). The aim of that association is to exchange knowledge and to advance the practice of structural engineering worldwide in the service of the profession and society. Specializations Building structures Structural building engineering includes all structural engineering related to the design of buildings. It is a branch of structural engineering closely affiliated with architecture. Structural building engineering is primarily driven by the creative manipulation of materials and forms and the underlying mathematical and scientific ideas to achieve an end that fulfills its functional requirements and is structurally safe when subjected to all the loads it could reasonably be expected to experience. This is subtly different from architectural design, which is driven by the creative manipulation of materials and forms, mass, space, volume, texture, and light to achieve an end which is aesthetic, functional, and often artistic. The structural design for a building must ensure that the building can stand up safely, able to function without excessive deflections or movements which may cause fatigue of structural elements, cracking or failure of fixtures, fittings or partitions, or discomfort for occupants. It must account for movements and forces due to temperature, creep, cracking, and imposed loads. It must also ensure that the design is practically buildable within acceptable manufacturing tolerances of the materials. It must allow the architecture to work, and the building services to fit within the building and function (air conditioning, ventilation, smoke extract, electrics, lighting, etc.). The structural design of a modern building can be extremely complex and often requires a large team to complete. Structural engineering specialties for buildings include: Earthquake engineering Façade engineering Fire engineering Roof engineering Tower engineering Wind engineering Earthquake engineering structures Earthquake engineering structures are those engineered to withstand earthquakes.The main objectives of earthquake engineering are to understand the interaction of structures with the shaking ground, foresee the consequences of possible earthquakes, and design and construct the structures to perform during an earthquake. Earthquake-proof structures are not necessarily extremely strong like the El Castillo pyramid at Chichen Itza shown above. One important tool of earthquake engineering is base isolation, which allows the base of a structure to move freely with the ground. Civil engineering structures Civil structural engineering includes all structural engineering related to the built environment. It includes: The structural engineer is the lead designer on these structures, and often the sole designer. In the design of structures such as these, structural safety is of paramount importance (in the UK, designs for dams, nuclear power stations and bridges must be signed off by a chartered engineer). Civil engineering structures are often subjected to very extreme forces, such as large variations in temperature, dynamic loads such as waves or traffic, or high pressures from water or compressed gases. They are also often constructed in corrosive environments, such as at sea, in industrial facilities, or below ground. Mechanical structures The principles of structural engineering apply to a variety of mechanical (moveable) structures. The design of static structures assumes they always have the same geometry (in fact, so-called static structures can move significantly, and structural engineering design must take this into account where necessary), but the design of moveable or moving structures must account for fatigue, variation in the method in which load is resisted and significant deflections of structures. The forces which parts of a machine are subjected to can vary significantly and can do so at a great rate. The forces which a boat or aircraft are subjected to vary enormously and will do so thousands of times over the structure's lifetime. The structural design must ensure that such structures can endure such loading for their entire design life without failing. These works can require mechanical structural engineering: Boilers and pressure vessels Coachworks and carriages Cranes Elevators Escalators Marine vessels and hulls Aerospace structures Aerospace structure types include launch vehicles, (Atlas, Delta, Titan), missiles (ALCM, Harpoon), Hypersonic vehicles (Space Shuttle), military aircraft (F-16, F-18) and commercial aircraft (Boeing 777, MD-11). Aerospace structures typically consist of thin plates with stiffeners for the external surfaces, bulkheads, and frames to support the shape and fasteners such as welds, rivets, screws, and bolts to hold the components together. Nanoscale structures A nanostructure is an object of intermediate size between molecular and microscopic (micrometer-sized) structures. In describing nanostructures it is necessary to differentiate between the number of dimensions on the nanoscale. Nanotextured surfaces have one dimension on the nanoscale, i.e., only the thickness of the surface of an object is between 0.1 and 100 nm. Nanotubes have two dimensions on the nanoscale, i.e., the diameter of the tube is between 0.1 and 100 nm; its length could be much greater. Finally, spherical nanoparticles have three dimensions on the nanoscale, i.e., the particle is between 0.1 and 100 nm in each spatial dimension. The terms nanoparticles and ultrafine particles (UFP) often are used synonymously although UFP can reach into the micrometer range. The term 'nanostructure' is often used when referring to magnetic technology. Structural engineering for medical science Medical equipment (also known as armamentarium) is designed to aid in the diagnosis, monitoring or treatment of medical conditions. There are several basic types: diagnostic equipment includes medical imaging machines, used to aid in diagnosis; equipment includes infusion pumps, medical lasers, and LASIK surgical machines; medical monitors allow medical staff to measure a patient's medical state. Monitors may measure patient vital signs and other parameters including ECG, EEG, blood pressure, and dissolved gases in the blood; diagnostic medical equipment may also be used in the home for certain purposes, e.g. for the control of diabetes mellitus. A biomedical equipment technician (BMET) is a vital component of the healthcare delivery system. Employed primarily by hospitals, BMETs are the people responsible for maintaining a facility's medical equipment. Structural elements Any structure is essentially made up of only a small number of different types of elements: Columns Beams Plates Arches Shells CatenariesMany of these elements can be classified according to form (straight, plane / curve) and dimensionality (one-dimensional / two-dimensional): Columns Columns are elements that carry only axial force (compression) or both axial force and bending (which is technically called a beam-column but practically, just a column). The design of a column must check the axial capacity of the element and the buckling capacity. The buckling capacity is the capacity of the element to withstand the propensity to buckle. Its capacity depends upon its geometry, material, and the effective length of the column, which depends upon the restraint conditions at the top and bottom of the column. The effective length is K ∗ l {displaystyle K*l} where l {displaystyle l} is the real length of the column and K is the factor dependent on the restraint conditions. The capacity of a column to carry axial load depends on the degree of bending it is subjected to, and vice versa. This is represented on an interaction chart and is a complex non-linear relationship. Beams A beam may be defined as an element in which one dimension is much greater than the other two and the applied loads are usually normal to the main axis of the element. Beams and columns are called line elements and are often represented by simple lines in structural modeling. cantilevered (supported at one end only with a fixed connection) simply supported (fixed against vertical translation at each end and horizontal translation at one end only, and able to rotate at the supports) fixed (supported in all directions for translation and rotation at each end) continuous (supported by three or more supports) a combination of the above (ex. supported at one end and in the middle)Beams are elements that carry pure bending only. Bending causes one part of the section of a beam (divided along its length) to go into compression and the other part into tension. The compression part must be designed to resist buckling and crushing, while the tension part must be able to adequately resist the tension. Trusses A truss is a structure comprising members and connection points or nodes. When members are connected at nodes and forces are applied at nodes members can act in tension or compression. Members acting in compression are referred to as compression members or struts while members acting in tension are referred to as tension members or ties. Most trusses use gusset plates to connect intersecting elements. Gusset plates are relatively flexible and unable to transfer bending moments. The connection is usually arranged so that the lines of force in the members are coincident at the joint thus allowing the truss members to act in pure tension or compression. Trusses are usually used in large-span structures, where it would be uneconomical to use solid beams. Plates Plates carry bending in two directions. A concrete flat slab is an example of a plate. Plates are understood by using continuum mechanics, but due to the complexity involved they are most often designed using a codified empirical approach, or computer analysis. They can also be designed with yield line theory, where an assumed collapse mechanism is analyzed to give an upper bound on the collapse load. This technique is used in practice but because the method provides an upper-bound (i.e. an unsafe prediction of the collapse load) for poorly conceived collapse mechanisms, great care is needed to ensure that the assumed collapse mechanism is realistic. Shells Shells derive their strength from their form and carry forces in compression in two directions. A dome is an example of a shell. They can be designed by making a hanging-chain model, which will act as a catenary in pure tension and inverting the form to achieve pure compression. Arches Arches carry forces in compression in one direction only, which is why it is appropriate to build arches out of masonry. They are designed by ensuring that the line of thrust of the force remains within the depth of the arch. It is mainly used to increase the bountifulness of any structure. Catenaries Catenaries derive their strength from their form and carry transverse forces in pure tension by deflecting (just as a tightrope will sag when someone walks on it). They are almost always cable or fabric structures. A fabric structure acts as a catenary in two directions. Materials Structural engineering depends on the knowledge of materials and their properties, in order to understand how different materials support and resist loads. It also involves a knowledge of Corrosion engineering to avoid for example galvanic coupling of dissimilar materials. Common structural materials are: Iron: wrought iron, cast iron Concrete: reinforced concrete, prestressed concrete Alloy: steel, stainless steel Masonry Timber: hardwood, softwood Aluminium Composite materials: plywood Other structural materials: adobe, bamboo, carbon fibre, fiber reinforced plastic, mudbrick, roofing materials See also Notes References Hibbeler, R. C. (2010). Structural Analysis. Prentice-Hall. Blank, Alan; McEvoy, Michael; Plank, Roger (1993). Architecture and Construction in Steel. Taylor & Francis. ISBN 0-419-17660-8. Hewson, Nigel R. (2003). Prestressed Concrete Bridges: Design and Construction. Thomas Telford. ISBN 0-7277-2774-5. Heyman, Jacques (1999). The Science of Structural Engineering. Imperial College Press. ISBN 1-86094-189-3. Hosford, William F. (2005). Mechanical Behavior of Materials. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-84670-6. Further reading Blockley, David (2014). A Very Short Introduction to Structural Engineering. Oxford University Press ISBN 978-0-19967193-9. Bradley, Robert E.; Sandifer, Charles Edward (2007). Leonhard Euler: Life, Work, and Legacy. Elsevier. ISBN 0-444-52728-1. Chapman, Allan. (2005). England's Leornardo: Robert Hooke and the Seventeenth Century's Scientific Revolution. CRC Press. ISBN 0-7503-0987-3. Dugas, René (1988). A History of Mechanics. Courier Dover Publications. ISBN 0-486-65632-2. Feld, Jacob; Carper, Kenneth L. (1997). Construction Failure. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 0-471-57477-5. Galilei, Galileo. (translators: Crew, Henry; de Salvio, Alfonso) (1954). Dialogues Concerning Two New Sciences. Courier Dover Publications. ISBN 0-486-60099-8 Kirby, Richard Shelton (1990). Engineering in History. Courier Dover Publications. ISBN 0-486-26412-2. Heyman, Jacques (1998). Structural Analysis: A Historical Approach. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-62249-2. Labrum, E.A. (1994). Civil Engineering Heritage. Thomas Telford. ISBN 0-7277-1970-X. Lewis, Peter R. (2004). Beautiful Bridge of the Silvery Tay. Tempus. Mir, Ali (2001). Art of the Skyscraper: the Genius of Fazlur Khan. Rizzoli International Publications. ISBN 0-8478-2370-9. Rozhanskaya, Mariam; Levinova, I. S. (1996). Statics in Morelon, Régis & Rashed, Roshdi (1996). Encyclopedia of the History of Arabic Science, vol. 2–3, Routledge. ISBN 0-415-02063-8 Whitbeck, Caroline (1998). Ethics in Engineering Practice and Research. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-47944-4. Hoogenboom P.C.J. (1998). Discrete Elements and Nonlinearity in Design of Structural Concrete Walls, Section 1.3 Historical Overview of Structural Concrete Modelling, ISBN 90-901184-3-8. Nedwell, P.J. ; Swamy, R.N. (ed) (1994). Ferrocement:Proceedings of the Fifth International Symposium. Taylor & Francis. ISBN 0-419-19700-1. External links Structural Engineering Association – International National Council of Structural Engineers Associations Structural Engineering Institute, an institute of the American Society of Civil Engineers Structurae database of structures Structural Engineering Association – International The EN Eurocodes are a series of 10 European Standards, EN 1990 – EN 1999, providing a common approach for the design of buildings and other civil engineering works and construction products Mahanadi Institute of Medical Science and Research is a tertiary Government medical college in Talcher, Odisha, East India, and is accredited by the Medical Council of India. The college awards the degree Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS). The college was established by Coal India limited. History Mahanadi Coalfields Limited (MCL), the public sector undertaking and subsidiary of Coal India Limited reiterated its commitment to set up a medical college and hospital in the state, and signed a MoU with National Building Corporation of India (NBCC) for medical college. On 2022 Government of Odisha agrees to run the Medical college, while MCL will provide funds for operation. Courses offered The college offers the degree Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS). Selection to the college is done on the basis of merit through the National Eligibility and Entrance Test. Yearly undergraduate student intake is 100 and the college has 500 beds.